0:0	N:N	N:N	NEAR the grass-covered rampart which encircles Copenhagen lies a great red house.
1:1	N:N	S:N	Balsams and other flowers greet us from the long rows of windows in the house, whose interior is sufficiently poverty-stricken; and poor and old are the people who inhabit it.
2:2	N:N	S:N	The building is the Warton Almshouse.
3:3	N:N	S:N	Look! at the window there leans an old maid.
4:4	Sa:N	S:N	She plucks the withered leaf from the balsam, and looks at the grass-covered rampart, on which many children are playing.
5:5	Sa:N	S:N	What is the old maid thinking of?
6:6	N:N	S:N	A whole life drama is unfolding itself before her inward gaze.
7:7	H:H	S:N	"The poor little children, how happy they are- how merrily they play and romp together!
8:8	Sa:N	S:S	What red cheeks and what angels' eyes! but they have no shoes nor stockings.
9:9	F:N	F:-	They dance on the green rampart, just on the place where, according to the old story, the ground always sank in, and where a sportive, frolicsome child had been lured by means of flowers, toys and sweetmeats into an open grave ready dug for it, and which was afterwards closed over the child; and from that moment, the old story says, the ground gave way no longer, the mound remained firm and fast, and was quickly covered with the green turf.
10:10	H:N	F:-	The little people who now play on that spot know nothing of the old tale, else would they fancy they heard a child crying deep below the earth, and the dewdrops on each blade of grass would be to them tears of woe.
11:11	Sa:N	S:-	Nor do they know anything of the Danish King who here, in the face of the coming foe, took an oath before all his trembling courtiers that he would hold out with the citizens of his capital, and die here in his nest; they know nothing of the men who have fought here, or of the women who from here have drenched with boiling water the enemy, clad in white, and 'biding in the snow to surprise the city.
12:12	Sa:N	S:-	"No! the poor little ones are playing with light, childish spirits.
13:13	Sa:N	S:-	Play on, play on, thou little maiden!
14:14	F:N	S:N	Soon the years will come- yes, those glorious years.
15:15	Sa:N	S:N	The priestly hands have been laid on the candidates for confirmation; hand in hand they walk on the green rampart.
16:16	Sa:N	S:N	Thou hast a white frock on; it has cost thy mother much labor, and yet it is only cut down for thee out of an old larger dress!
17:17	A:N	S:N	You will also wear a red shawl; and what if it hang too far down?
18:18	Sa:N	S:N	People will only see how large, how very large it is.
19:19	H:N	S:N	You are thinking of your dress, and of the Giver of all good- so glorious is it to wander on the green rampart!
20:20	H:N	S:H	"And the years roll by; they have no lack of dark days, but you have your cheerful young spirit, and you have gained a friend- you know not how.
21:21	Su-:N	S:H	You met, oh, how often!
22:22	H:N	H:H	You walk together on the rampart in the fresh spring, on the high days and holidays, when all the world come out to walk upon the ramparts, and all the bells of the church steeples seem to be singing a song of praise for the coming spring.
23:23	N:N	H:N	"Scarcely have the violets come forth, but there on the rampart, just opposite the beautiful Castle of Rosenberg, there is a tree bright with the first green buds.
24:24	N:N	H:N	Every year this tree sends forth fresh green shoots.
25:25	Sa:N	S:+	Alas!
26:26	Sa:N	S:+	It is not so with the human heart!
27:27	Sa:N	S:F	Dark mists, more in number than those that cover the northern skies, cloud the human heart.
28:28	Sa:Sa	S:F	Poor child! thy friend's bridal chamber is a black coffin, and thou becomest an old maid.
29:29	Sa:N	S:S	From the almshouse window, behind the balsams, thou shalt look on the merry children at play, and shalt see thine own history renewed."
30:30	Sa:N	S:S	And that is the life drama that passes before the old maid while she looks out upon the rampart, the green, sunny rampart, where the children, with their red cheeks and bare shoeless feet, are rejoicing merrily, like the other free little birds.
0:0	Sa:N	S:N	"WHENEVER a good child dies, an angel of God comes down from heaven, takes the dead child in his arms, spreads out his great white wings, and flies with him over all the places which the child had loved during his life.
1:1	H:N	S:N	Then he gathers a large handful of flowers, which he carries up to the Almighty, that they may bloom more brightly in heaven than they do on earth.
2:2	H:N	H:H	And the Almighty presses the flowers to His heart, but He kisses the flower that pleases Him best, and it receives a voice, and is able to join the song of the chorus of bliss."
3:3	N:N	H:N	These words were spoken by an angel of God, as he carried a dead child up to heaven, and the child listened as if in a dream.
4:4	H:N	H:H	Then they passed over well-known spots, where the little one had often played, and through beautiful gardens full of lovely flowers.
5:5	H:N	H:H	"Which of these shall we take with us to heaven to be transplanted there?" asked the angel.
6:6	Sa:N	H:-	Close by grew a slender, beautiful, rose-bush, but some wicked hand had broken the stem, and the half-opened rosebuds hung faded and withered on the trailing branches.
7:7	Sa:Sa	H:S	"Poor rose-bush!" said the child, "let us take it with us to heaven, that it may bloom above in God's garden."
8:8	H:N	H:H	The angel took up the rose-bush; then he kissed the child, and the little one half opened his eyes.
9:9	H:N	H:N	The angel gathered also some beautiful flowers, as well as a few humble buttercups and heart's-ease.
10:10	H:N	H:N	"Now we have flowers enough," said the child; but the angel only nodded, he did not fly upward to heaven.
11:11	F:N	H:N	It was night, and quite still in the great town.
12:12	N:N	N:N	Here they remained, and the angel hovered over a small, narrow street, in which lay a large heap of straw, ashes, and sweepings from the houses of people who had removed.
13:13	D:N	S:N	There lay fragments of plates, pieces of plaster, rags, old hats, and other rubbish not pleasant to see.
14:14	Sa:N	S:N	Amidst all this confusion, the angel pointed to the pieces of a broken flower-pot, and to a lump of earth which had fallen out of it.
15:15	Sa:N	S:N	The earth had been kept from falling to pieces by the roots of a withered field-flower, which had been thrown amongst the rubbish.
16:16	H:N	S:N	"We will take this with us," said the angel, "I will tell you why as we fly along."
17:17	N:N	S:N	And as they flew the angel related the history.
18:18	Sa:N	S:S	"Down in that narrow lane, in a low cellar, lived a poor sick boy; he had been afflicted from his childhood, and even in his best days he could just manage to walk up and down the room on crutches once or twice, but no more.
19:19	N:N	S:N	During some days in summer, the sunbeams would lie on the floor of the cellar for about half an hour.
20:20	Sa:N	S:S	In this spot the poor sick boy would sit warming himself in the sunshine, and watching the red blood through his delicate fingers as he held them before his face.
21:21	Su+:N	S:S	Then he would say he had been out, yet he knew nothing of the green forest in its spring verdure, till a neighbor's son brought him a green bough from a beech-tree.
22:22	H:N	S:S	This he would place over his head, and fancy that he was in the beech-wood while the sun shone, and the birds carolled gayly.
23:23	Su+:N	S:N	One spring day the neighbor's boy brought him some field-flowers, and among them was one to which the root still adhered.
24:24	H:N	H:S	This he carefully planted in a flower-pot, and placed in a window-seat near his bed.
25:25	H:N	H:H	And the flower had been planted by a fortunate hand, for it grew, put forth fresh shoots, and blossomed every year.
26:26	H:H	H:H	It became a splendid flower-garden to the sick boy, and his little treasure upon earth.
27:27	H:N	H:H	He watered it, and cherished it, and took care it should have the benefit of every sunbeam that found its way into the cellar, from the earliest morning ray to the evening sunset.
28:28	H:H	H:H	The flower entwined itself even in his dreams- for him it bloomed, for him spread its perfume.
29:29	H:H	H:H	And it gladdened his eyes, and to the flower he turned, even in death, when the Lord called him.
30:30	Sa:N	S:N	He has been one year with God.
31:31	Sa:Sa	S:S	During that time the flower has stood in the window, withered and forgotten, till at length cast out among the sweepings into the street, on the day of the lodgers' removal.
32:32	H:N	H:H	And this poor flower, withered and faded as it is, we have added to our nosegay, because it gave more real joy than the most beautiful flower in the garden of a queen."
33:33	Su+:N	H:N	"But how do you know all this?" asked the child whom the angel was carrying to heaven.
34:34	H:N	H:+	"I know it," said the angel, "because I myself was the poor sick boy who walked upon crutches, and I know my own flower well."
35:35	H:H	H:H	Then the child opened his eyes and looked into the glorious happy face of the angel, and at the same moment they found themselves in that heavenly home where all is happiness and joy.
36:36	H:N	H:H	And God pressed the dead child to His heart, and wings were given him so that he could fly with the angel, hand in hand.
37:37	H:N	H:H	Then the Almighty pressed all the flowers to His heart; but He kissed the withered field-flower, and it received a voice.
38:38	H:H	H:H	Then it joined in the song of the angels, who surrounded the throne, some near, and others in a distant circle, but all equally happy.
39:39	H:H	H:H	They all joined in the chorus of praise, both great and small,- the good, happy child, and the poor field-flower, that once lay withered and cast away on a heap of rubbish in a narrow, dark street.
0:0	N:N	N:N	ANNE LISBETH was a beautiful young woman, with a red and white complexion, glittering white teeth, and clear soft eyes; and her footstep was light in the dance, but her mind was lighter still.
1:1	N:N	N:N	She had a little child, not at all pretty; so he was put out to be nursed by a laborer's wife, and his mother went to the count's castle.
2:2	N:N	N:N	She sat in splendid rooms, richly decorated with silk and velvet; not a breath of air was allowed to blow upon her, and no one was allowed to speak to her harshly, for she was nurse to the count's child.
3:3	N:N	N:H	He was fair and delicate as a prince, and beautiful as an angel; and how she loved this child!
4:4	N:N	N:N	Her own boy was provided for by being at the laborer's where the mouth watered more frequently than the pot boiled, and where in general no one was at home to take care of the child.
5:5	Sa:Sa	S:S	Then he would cry, but what nobody knows nobody cares for; so he would cry till he was tired, and then fall asleep; and while we are asleep we can feel neither hunger nor thirst.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Ah, yes; sleep is a capital invention.
7:7	N:N	N:N	As years went on, Anne Lisbeth's child grew apace like weeds, although they said his growth had been stunted.
8:8	N:N	N:-	He had become quite a member of the family in which he dwelt; they received money to keep him, so that his mother got rid of him altogether.
9:9	N:N	N:N	She had become quite a lady; she had a comfortable home of her own in the town; and out of doors, when she went for a walk, she wore a bonnet; but she never walked out to see the laborer: that was too far from the town, and, indeed, she had nothing to go for, the boy now belonged to these laboring people.
10:10	N:N	N:N	He had food, and he could also do something towards earning his living; he took care of Mary's red cow, for he knew how to tend cattle and make himself useful.
11:11	N:N	N:N	The great dog by the yard gate of a nobleman's mansion sits proudly on the top of his kennel when the sun shines, and barks at every one that passes; but if it rains, he creeps into his house, and there he is warm and dry.
12:12	N:N	N:N	Anne Lisbeth's boy also sat in the sunshine on the top of the fence, cutting out a little toy.
13:13	N:N	N:N	If it was spring-time, he knew of three strawberry-plants in blossom, which would certainly bear fruit.
14:14	N:N	N:N	This was his most hopeful thought, though it often came to nothing.
15:15	N:N	S:-	And he had to sit out in the rain in the worst weather, and get wet to the skin, and let the cold wind dry the clothes on his back afterwards.
16:16	Sa:N	S:S	If he went near the farmyard belonging to the count, he was pushed and knocked about, for the men and the maids said he was so horrible ugly; but he was used to all this, for nobody loved him.
17:17	N:N	S:S	This was how the world treated Anne Lisbeth's boy, and how could it be otherwise.
18:18	N:N	S:-	It was his fate to be beloved by no one.
19:19	N:N	S:S	Hitherto he had been a land crab; the land at last cast him adrift.
20:20	N:N	S:S	He went to sea in a wretched vessel, and sat at the helm, while the skipper sat over the grog-can.
21:21	N:N	S:S	He was dirty and ugly, half-frozen and half-starved; he always looked as if he never had enough to eat, which was really the case.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Late in the autumn, when the weather was rough, windy, and wet, and the cold penetrated through the thickest clothing, especially at sea, a wretched boat went out to sea with only two men on board, or, more correctly, a man and a half, for it was the skipper and his boy.
23:23	N:N	N:S	There had only been a kind of twilight all day, and it soon grew quite dark, and so bitterly cold, that the skipper took a dram to warm him.
24:24	N:N	N:N	The bottle was old, and the glass too.
25:25	N:N	N:S	It was perfect in the upper part, but the foot was broken off, and it had therefore been fixed upon a little carved block of wood, painted blue.
26:26	N:N	N:N	A dram is a great comfort, and two are better still, thought the skipper, while the boy sat at the helm, which he held fast in his hard seamed hands.
27:27	N:N	N:S	He was ugly, and his hair was matted, and he looked crippled and stunted; they called him the field-laborer's boy, though in the church register he was entered as Anne Lisbeth's son.
28:28	N:N	N:N	The wind cut through the rigging, and the boat cut through the sea.
29:29	N:N	N:N	The sails, filled by the wind, swelled out and carried them along in wild career.
30:30	N:N	N:N	It was wet and rough above and below, and might still be worse.
31:31	N:N	-:-	Hold! what is that?
32:32	N:N	-:-	What has struck the boat?
33:33	N:N	-:-	Was it a waterspout, or a heavy sea rolling suddenly upon them?
34:34	F:F	F:-	"Heaven help us!" cried the boy at the helm, as the boat heeled over and lay on its beam ends.
35:35	N:N	F:N	It had struck on a rock, which rose from the depths of the sea, and sank at once, like an old shoe in a puddle.
36:36	N:N	-:N	"It sank at once with mouse and man," as the saying is.
37:37	N:N	-:-	There might have been mice on board, but only one man and a half, the skipper and the laborer's boy.
38:38	N:N	-:-	No one saw it but the skimming sea-gulls and the fishes beneath the water; and even they did not see it properly, for they darted back with terror as the boat filled with water and sank.
39:39	N:N	-:-	There it lay, scarcely a fathom below the surface, and those two were provided for, buried, and forgotten.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The glass with the foot of blue wood was the only thing that did not sink, for the wood floated and the glass drifted away to be cast upon the shore and broken; where and when, is indeed of no consequence.
41:41	N:N	N:S	It had served its purpose, and it had been loved, which Anne Lisbeth's boy had not been.
42:42	N:N	N:S	But in heaven no soul will be able to say, "Never loved."
43:43	N:N	N:N	Anne Lisbeth had now lived in the town many years; she was called "Madame," and felt dignified in consequence; she remembered the old, noble days, in which she had driven in the carriage, and had associated with countess and baroness.
44:44	H:H	H:H	Her beautiful, noble child had been a dear angel, and possessed the kindest heart; he had loved her so much, and she had loved him in return; they had kissed and loved each other, and the boy had been her joy, her second life.
45:45	N:N	N:N	Now he was fourteen years of age, tall, handsome, and clever.
46:46	N:N	N:S	She had not seen him since she carried him in her arms; neither had she been for years to the count's palace; it was quite a journey thither from the town.
47:47	N:N	N:H	"I must make one effort to go," said Anne Lisbeth, "to see my darling, the count's sweet child, and press him to my heart.
48:48	H:N	H:H	Certainly he must long to see me, too, the young count; no doubt he thinks of me and loves me, as in those days when he would fling his angel-arms round my neck, and lisp 'Anne Liz.'
49:49	H:N	H:H	It was music to my ears.
50:50	N:N	H:N	Yes, I must make an effort to see him again."
51:51	N:N	N:N	She drove across the country in a grazier's cart, and then got out, and continued her journey on foot, and thus reached the count's castle.
52:52	N:H	N:N	It was as great and magnificent as it had always been, and the garden looked the same as ever; all the servants were strangers to her, not one of them knew Anne Lisbeth, nor of what consequence she had once been there; but she felt sure the countess would soon let them know it, and her darling boy, too: how she longed to see him!
53:53	N:N	N:S	Now that Anne Lisbeth was at her journey's end, she was kept waiting a long time; and for those who wait, time passes slowly.
54:54	N:N	N:N	But before the great people went in to dinner, she was called in and spoken to very graciously.
55:55	N:N	N:H	She was to go in again after dinner, and then she would see her sweet boy once more.
56:56	N:N	N:H	How tall, and slender, and thin he had grown; but the eyes and the sweet angel mouth were still beautiful.
57:57	N:N	N:S	He looked at her, but he did not speak, he certainly did not know who she was.
58:58	N:N	N:S	He turned round and was going away, but she seized his hand and pressed it to her lips.
59:59	D:N	-:S	"Well, well," he said; and with that he walked out of the room.
60:60	N:N	-:S	He who filled her every thought! he whom she loved best, and who was her whole earthly pride!
61:61	Sa:Sa	S:S	Anne Lisbeth went forth from the castle into the public road, feeling mournful and sad; he whom she had nursed day and night, and even now carried about in her dreams, had been cold and strange, and had not a word or thought respecting her.
62:62	N:N	S:-	A great black raven darted down in front of her on the high road, and croaked dismally.
63:63	Sa:F	S:F	"Ah," said she, "what bird of ill omen art thou?"
64:64	N:N	N:N	Presently she passed the laborer's hut; his wife stood at the door, and the two women spoke to each other.
65:65	N:N	N:N	"You look well," said the woman; "you're fat and plump; you are well off."
66:66	N:N	N:H	"Oh yes," answered Anne Lisbeth.
67:67	N:N	N:S	"The boat went down with them," continued the woman; "Hans the skipper and the boy were both drowned; so there's an end of them.
68:68	N:N	N:N	I always thought the boy would be able to help me with a few dollars.
69:69	N:N	N:S	He'll never cost you anything more, Anne Lisbeth."
70:70	N:N	N:S	"So they were drowned," repeated Anne Lisbeth; but she said no more, and the subject was dropped.
71:71	Sa:Sa	S:S	She felt very low-spirited, because her count-child had shown no inclination to speak to her who loved him so well, and who had travelled so far to see him.
72:72	Sa:N	S:S	The journey had cost money too, and she had derived no great pleasure from it.
73:73	N:N	S:S	Still she said not a word of all this; she could not relieve her heart by telling the laborer's wife, lest the latter should think she did not enjoy her former position at the castle.
74:74	N:N	N:F	Then the raven flew over her, screaming again as he flew.
75:75	A:F	A:F	"The black wretch!" said Anne Lisbeth, "he will end by frightening me today."
76:76	N:N	N:N	She had brought coffee and chicory with her, for she thought it would be a charity to the poor woman to give them to her to boil a cup of coffee, and then she would take a cup herself.
77:77	N:N	N:N	The woman prepared the coffee, and in the meantime Anne Lisbeth seated her in a chair and fell asleep.
78:78	N:N	N:-	Then she dreamed of something which she had never dreamed before; singularly enough she dreamed of her own child, who had wept and hungered in the laborer's hut, and had been knocked about in heat and in cold, and who was now lying in the depths of the sea, in a spot only known by God.
79:79	N:N	N:N	She fancied she was still sitting in the hut, where the woman was busy preparing the coffee, for she could smell the coffee-berries roasting.
80:80	N:N	N:H	But suddenly it seemed to her that there stood on the threshold a beautiful young form, as beautiful as the count's child, and this apparition said to her, "The world is passing away; hold fast to me, for you are my mother after all; you have an angel in heaven, hold me fast;" and the child-angel stretched out his hand and seized her.
81:81	N:N	-:F	Then there was a terrible crash, as of a world crumbling to pieces, and the angel-child was rising from the earth, and holding her by the sleeve so tightly that she felt herself lifted from the ground; but, on the other hand, something heavy hung to her feet and dragged her down, and it seemed as if hundreds of women were clinging to her, and crying, "If thou art to be saved, we must be saved too.
82:82	N:N	-:F	Hold fast, hold fast."
83:83	F:F	-:F	And then they all hung on her, but there were too many; and as they clung the sleeve was torn, and Anne Lisbeth fell down in horror, and awoke.
84:84	F:F	-:F	Indeed she was on the point of falling over in reality with the chair on which she sat; but she was so startled and alarmed that she could not remember what she had dreamed, only that it was something very dreadful.
85:85	N:N	N:N	They drank their coffee and had a chat together, and then Anne Lisbeth went away towards the little town where she was to meet the carrier, who was to drive her back to her own home.
86:86	N:N	N:N	But when she came to him she found that he would not be ready to start till the evening of the next day.
87:87	N:N	N:N	Then she began to think of the expense, and what the distance would be to walk.
88:88	N:N	N:N	She remembered that the route by the sea-shore was two miles shorter than by the high road; and as the weather was clear, and there would be moonlight, she determined to make her way on foot, and to start at once, that she might reach home the next day.
89:89	N:N	N:F	The sun had set, and the evening bells sounded through the air from the tower of the village church, but to her it was not the bells, but the cry of the frogs in the marshes.
90:90	N:N	N:F	Then they ceased, and all around became still; not a bird could be heard, they were all at rest, even the owl had not left her hiding place; deep silence reigned on the margin of the wood by the sea-shore.
91:91	N:N	N:F	As Anne Lisbeth walked on she could hear her own footsteps in the sands; even the waves of the sea were at rest, and all in the deep waters had sunk into silence.
92:92	N:N	N:N	There was quiet among the dead and the living in the deep sea.
93:93	N:N	N:F	Anne Lisbeth walked on, thinking of nothing at all, as people say, or rather her thoughts wandered, but not away from her, for thought is never absent from us, it only slumbers.
94:94	N:N	N:F	Many thoughts that have lain dormant are roused at the proper time, and begin to stir in the mind and the heart, and seem even to come upon us from above.
95:95	N:N	N:F	It is written, that a good deed bears a blessing for its fruit; and it is also written, that the wages of sin is death.
96:96	N:N	N:N	Much has been said and much written which we pass over or know nothing of.
97:97	N:N	N:F	A light arises within us, and then forgotten things make themselves remembered; and thus it was with Anne Lisbeth.
98:98	N:N	N:N	The germ of every vice and every virtue lies in our heart, in yours and in mine; they lie like little grains of seed, till a ray of sunshine, or the touch of an evil hand, or you turn the corner to the right or to the left, and the decision is made.
99:99	N:N	N:F	The little seed is stirred, it swells and shoots up, and pours its sap into your blood, directing your course either for good or evil.
100:100	N:N	N:F	Troublesome thoughts often exist in the mind, fermenting there, which are not realized by us while the senses are as it were slumbering; but still they are there.
101:101	N:N	N:F	Anne Lisbeth walked on thus with her senses half asleep, but the thoughts were fermenting within her.
102:102	N:N	N:F	From one Shrove Tuesday to another, much may occur to weigh down the heart; it is the reckoning of a whole year; much may be forgotten, sins against heaven in word and thought, sins against our neighbor, and against our own conscience.
103:103	N:N	N:F	We are scarcely aware of their existence; and Anne Lisbeth did not think of any of her errors.
104:104	N:N	N:N	She had committed no crime against the law of the land; she was an honorable person, in a good position- that she knew.
105:105	N:N	N:N	She continued her walk along by the margin of the sea.
106:106	N:N	N:F	What was it she saw lying there?
107:107	N:N	N:F	An old hat; a man's hat.
108:108	N:N	N:N	Now when might that have been washed overboard?
109:109	N:N	N:F	She drew nearer, she stopped to look at the hat; "Ha! what was lying yonder?"
110:110	F:F	-:F	She shuddered; yet it was nothing save a heap of grass and tangled seaweed flung across a long stone, but it looked like a corpse.
111:111	F:F	F:F	Only tangled grass, and yet she was frightened at it.
112:112	N:F	F:F	As she turned to walk away, much came into her mind that she had heard in her childhood: old superstitions of spectres by the sea-shore; of the ghosts of drowned but unburied people, whose corpses had been washed up on the desolate beach.
113:113	N:N	F:F	The body, she knew, could do no harm to any one, but the spirit could pursue the lonely wanderer, attach itself to him, and demand to be carried to the churchyard, that it might rest in consecrated ground.
114:114	N:F	F:F	"Hold fast! hold fast!" the spectre would cry; and as Anne Lisbeth murmured these words to herself, the whole of her dream was suddenly recalled to her memory, when the mother had clung to her, and uttered these words, when, amid the crashing of worlds, her sleeve had been torn, and she had slipped from the grasp of her child, who wanted to hold her up in that terrible hour.
115:115	N:N	F:F	Her child, her own child, which she had never loved, lay now buried in the sea, and might rise up, like a spectre, from the waters, and cry, "Hold fast; carry me to consecrated ground!"
116:116	F:F	F:F	As these thoughts passed through her mind, fear gave speed to her feet, so that she walked faster and faster.
117:117	F:F	F:F	Fear came upon her as if a cold, clammy hand had been laid upon her heart, so that she almost fainted.
118:118	N:N	F:F	As she looked across the sea, all there grew darker; a heavy mist came rolling onwards, and clung to bush and tree, distorting them into fantastic shapes.
119:119	N:N	F:N	She turned and glanced at the moon, which had risen behind her.
120:120	N:F	F:F	It looked like a pale, rayless surface, and a deadly weight seemed to hang upon her limbs.
121:121	N:N	F:F	"Hold," thought she; and then she turned round a second time to look at the moon.
122:122	N:N	F:F	A white face appeared quite close to her, with a mist, hanging like a garment from its shoulders.
123:123	N:N	F:F	"Stop! carry me to consecrated earth," sounded in her ears, in strange, hollow tones.
124:124	N:N	F:F	The sound did not come from frogs or ravens; she saw no sign of such creatures.
125:125	N:N	F:F	"A grave! dig me a grave!" was repeated quite loud.
126:126	N:N	F:F	Yes, it was indeed the spectre of her child.
127:127	N:N	F:F	The child that lay beneath the ocean, and whose spirit could have no rest until it was carried to the churchyard, and until a grave had been dug for it in consecrated ground.
128:128	N:N	F:F	She would go there at once, and there she would dig.
129:129	N:F	N:F	She turned in the direction of the church, and the weight on her heart seemed to grow lighter, and even to vanish altogether; but when she turned to go home by the shortest way, it returned.
130:130	A:N	F:N	"Stop! stop!" and the words came quite clear, though they were like the croak of a frog, or the wail of a bird.
131:131	A:N	F:F	"A grave! dig me a grave!"
132:132	N:F	F:F	The mist was cold and damp, her hands and face were moist and clammy with horror, a heavy weight again seized her and clung to her, her mind became clear for thoughts that had never before been there.
133:133	N:N	F:N	In these northern regions, a beech-wood often buds in a single night and appears in the morning sunlight in its full glory of youthful green.
134:134	N:N	F:F	So, in a single instant, can the consciousness of the sin that has been committed in thoughts, words, and actions of our past life, be unfolded to us.
135:135	N:N	N:F	When once the conscience is awakened, it springs up in the heart spontaneously, and God awakens the conscience when we least expect it.
136:136	N:N	N:F	Then we can find no excuse for ourselves; the deed is there and bears witness against us.
137:137	N:N	N:F	The thoughts seem to become words, and to sound far out into the world.
138:138	N:N	N:F	We are horrified at the thought of what we have carried within us, and at the consciousness that we have not overcome the evil which has its origin in thoughtlessness and pride.
139:139	N:N	N:F	The heart conceals within itself the vices as well as the virtues, and they grow in the shallowest ground.
140:140	N:N	N:F	Anne Lisbeth now experienced in thought what we have clothed in words.
141:141	N:N	F:F	She was overpowered by them, and sank down and crept along for some distance on the ground.
142:142	N:F	F:F	"A grave! dig me a grave!" sounded again in her ears, and she would have gladly buried herself, if in the grave she could have found forgetfulness of her actions.
143:143	F:F	F:F	It was the first hour of her awakening, full of anguish and horror.
144:144	F:F	F:F	Superstition made her alternately shudder with cold or burn with the heat of fever.
145:145	N:F	F:F	Many things, of which she had feared even to speak, came into her mind.
146:146	N:N	F:F	Silently, as the cloud-shadows in the moonshine, a spectral apparition flitted by her; she had heard of it before.
147:147	N:N	F:F	Close by her galloped four snorting steeds, with fire flashing from their eyes and nostrils.
148:148	N:N	F:F	They dragged a burning coach, and within it sat the wicked lord of the manor, who had ruled there a hundred years before.
149:149	N:N	F:N	The legend says that every night, at twelve o'clock, he drove into his castleyard and out again.
150:150	N:N	F:N	He was not as pale as dead men are, but black as a coal.
151:151	N:A	F:A	He nodded, and pointed to Anne Lisbeth, crying out, "Hold fast! hold fast! and then you may ride again in a nobleman's carriage, and forget your child."
152:152	N:N	F:F	She gathered herself up, and hastened to the churchyard; but black crosses and black ravens danced before her eyes, and she could not distinguish one from the other.
153:153	N:N	F:F	The ravens croaked as the raven had done which she saw in the daytime, but now she understood what they said.
154:154	N:F	F:F	"I am the raven-mother; I am the raven-mother," each raven croaked, and Anne Lisbeth felt that the name also applied to her; and she fancied she should be transformed into a black bird, and have to cry as they cried, if she did not dig the grave.
155:155	F:N	F:F	And she threw herself upon the earth, and with her hands dug a grave in the hard ground, so that the blood ran from her fingers.
156:156	F:F	F:F	"A grave! dig me a grave!" still sounded in her ears; she was fearful that the cock might crow, and the first red streak appear in the east, before she had finished her work; and then she would be lost.
157:157	N:N	F:F	And the cock crowed, and the day dawned in the east, and the grave was only half dug.
158:158	N:N	F:F	An icy hand passed over her head and face, and down towards her heart.
159:159	N:N	F:F	"Only half a grave," a voice wailed, and fled away.
160:160	N:N	F:F	Yes, it fled away over the sea; it was the ocean spectre; and, exhausted and overpowered, Anne Lisbeth sunk to the ground, and her senses left her.
161:161	N:N	N:-	It was a bright day when she came to herself, and two men were raising her up; but she was not lying in the churchyard, but on the sea-shore, where she had dug a deep hole in the sand, and cut her hand with a piece of broken glass, whose sharp stern was stuck in a little block of painted wood.
162:162	N:N	N:N	Anne Lisbeth was in a fever.
163:163	N:N	N:S	Conscience had roused the memories of superstitions, and had so acted upon her mind, that she fancied she had only half a soul, and that her child had taken the other half down into the sea.
164:164	N:N	N:S	Never would she be able to cling to the mercy of Heaven till she had recovered this other half which was now held fast in the deep water.
165:165	N:N	N:S	Anne Lisbeth returned to her home, but she was no longer the woman she had been.
166:166	N:N	N:S	Her thoughts were like a confused, tangled skein; only one thread, only one thought was clear to her, namely that she must carry the spectre of the sea-shore to the churchyard, and dig a grave for him there; that by so doing she might win back her soul.
167:167	N:N	N:N	Many a night she was missed from her home, and was always found on the sea-shore waiting for the spectre.
168:168	N:N	N:-	In this way a whole year passed; and then one night she vanished again, and was not to be found.
169:169	N:N	N:S	The whole of the next day was spent in a useless search after her.
170:170	N:N	N:S	Towards evening, when the clerk entered the church to toll the vesper bell, he saw by the altar Anne Lisbeth, who had spent the whole day there.
171:171	N:N	N:S	Her powers of body were almost exhausted, but her eyes flashed brightly, and on her cheeks was a rosy flush.
172:172	N:N	N:-	The last rays of the setting sun shone upon her, and gleamed over the altar upon the shining clasps of the Bible, which lay open at the words of the prophet Joel, "Rend your hearts and not your garments, and turn unto the Lord."
173:173	N:N	N:N	"That was just a chance," people said; but do things happen by chance?
174:174	H:N	H:N	In the face of Anne Lisbeth, lighted up by the evening sun, could be seen peace and rest.
175:175	H:H	H:N	She said she was happy now, for she had conquered.
176:176	N:N	N:H	The spectre of the shore, her own child, had come to her the night before, and had said to her, "Thou hast dug me only half a grave: but thou hast now, for a year and a day, buried me altogether in thy heart, and it is there a mother can best hide her child!"
177:177	N:N	N:H	And then he gave her back her lost soul, and brought her into the church.
178:178	H:H	H:H	"Now I am in the house of God," she said, "and in that house we are happy."
179:179	H:N	H:H	When the sun set, Anne Lisbeth's soul had risen to that region where there is no more pain; and Anne Lisbeth's troubles were at an end.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IT was the month of May.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The wind still blew cold; but from bush and tree, field and flower, came the welcome sound, "Spring is come."
2:2	N:N	N:N	Wild-flowers in profusion covered the hedges.
3:3	N:N	N:N	Under the little apple-tree, Spring seemed busy, and told his tale from one of the branches which hung fresh and blooming, and covered with delicate pink blossoms that were just ready to open.
4:4	H:N	H:N	The branch well knew how beautiful it was; this knowledge exists as much in the leaf as in the blood; I was therefore not surprised when a nobleman's carriage, in which sat the young countess, stopped in the road just by.
5:5	H:N	H:N	She said that an apple-branch was a most lovely object, and an emblem of spring in its most charming aspect.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Then the branch was broken off for her, and she held it in her delicate hand, and sheltered it with her silk parasol.
7:7	N:N	N:N	Then they drove to the castle, in which were lofty halls and splendid drawing-rooms.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Pure white curtains fluttered before the open windows, and beautiful flowers stood in shining, transparent vases; and in one of them, which looked as if it had been cut out of newly fallen snow, the apple-branch was placed, among some fresh, light twigs of beech.
9:9	N:N	H:N	It was a charming sight.
10:10	N:N	N:N	Then the branch became proud, which was very much like human nature.
11:11	N:N	N:N	People of every description entered the room, and, according to their position in society, so dared they to express their admiration.
12:12	N:N	N:N	Some few said nothing, others expressed too much, and the apple-branch very soon got to understand that there was as much difference in the characters of human beings as in those of plants and flowers.
13:13	N:N	N:N	Some are all for pomp and parade, others have a great deal to do to maintain their own importance, while the rest might be spared without much loss to society.
14:14	N:N	N:N	So thought the apple-branch, as he stood before the open window, from which he could see out over gardens and fields, where there were flowers and plants enough for him to think and reflect upon; some rich and beautiful, some poor and humble indeed.
15:15	D:N	D:-	"Poor, despised herbs," said the apple-branch; "there is really a difference between them and such as I am.
16:16	N:N	N:-	How unhappy they must be, if they can feel as those in my position do!
17:17	N:N	N:-	There is a difference indeed, and so there ought to be, or we should all be equals."
18:18	Sa:Sa	N:-	And the apple-branch looked with a sort of pity upon them, especially on a certain little flower that is found in fields and in ditches.
19:19	N:N	N:N	No one bound these flowers together in a nosegay; they were too common; they were even known to grow between the paving-stones, shooting up everywhere, like bad weeds; and they bore the very ugly name of "dog-flowers" or "dandelions."
20:20	N:N	N:-	"Poor, despised plants," said the apple-bough, "it is not your fault that you are so ugly, and that you have such an ugly name; but it is with plants as with men,- there must be a difference."
21:21	Su-:Su-	-:-	"A difference!" cried the sunbeam, as he kissed the blooming apple-branch, and then kissed the yellow dandelion out in the fields.
22:22	N:N	N:N	All were brothers, and the sunbeam kissed them- the poor flowers as well as the rich.
23:23	N:N	N:N	The apple-bough had never thought of the boundless love of God, which extends over all the works of creation, over everything which lives, and moves, and has its being in Him; he had never thought of the good and beautiful which are so often hidden, but can never remain forgotten by Him,- not only among the lower creation, but also among men.
24:24	N:N	N:N	The sunbeam, the ray of light, knew better.
25:25	D:N	D:N	"You do not see very far, nor very clearly," he said to the apple-branch.
26:26	D:N	D:N	"Which is the despised plant you so specially pity?"
27:27	N:N	N:N	"The dandelion," he replied.
28:28	D:N	D:N	"No one ever places it in a nosegay; it is often trodden under foot, there are so many of them; and when they run to seed, they have flowers like wool, which fly away in little pieces over the roads, and cling to the dresses of the people.
29:29	D:N	D:N	They are only weeds; but of course there must be weeds.
30:30	H:H	N:-	O, I am really very thankful that I was not made like one of these flowers."
31:31	H:H	H:H	There came presently across the fields a whole group of children, the youngest of whom was so small that it had to be carried by the others; and when he was seated on the grass, among the yellow flowers, he laughed aloud with joy, kicked out his little legs, rolled about, plucked the yellow flowers, and kissed them in childlike innocence.
32:32	N:N	H:H	The elder children broke off the flowers with long stems, bent the stalks one round the other, to form links, and made first a chain for the neck, then one to go across the shoulders, and hang down to the waist, and at last a wreath to wear round the head, so that they looked quite splendid in their garlands of green stems and golden flowers.
33:33	N:N	H:N	But the eldest among them gathered carefully the faded flowers, on the stem of which was grouped together the seed, in the form of a white feathery coronal.
34:34	N:N	H:N	These loose, airy wool-flowers are very beautiful, and look like fine snowy feathers or down.
35:35	N:N	H:H	The children held them to their mouths, and tried to blow away the whole coronal with one puff of the breath.
36:36	N:N	H:H	They had been told by their grandmothers that who ever did so would be sure to have new clothes before the end of the year.
37:37	N:N	H:H	The despised flower was by this raised to the position of a prophet or foreteller of events.
38:38	H:N	H:N	"Do you see," said the sunbeam, "do you see the beauty of these flowers? do you see their powers of giving pleasure?"
39:39	N:N	N:-	"Yes, to children," said the apple-bough.
40:40	N:N	N:N	By-and-by an old woman came into the field, and, with a blunt knife without a handle, began to dig round the roots of some of the dandelion-plants, and pull them up.
41:41	N:N	N:N	With some of these she intended to make tea for herself; but the rest she was going to sell to the chemist, and obtain some money.
42:42	N:N	N:-	"But beauty is of higher value than all this," said the apple-tree branch; "only the chosen ones can be admitted into the realms of the beautiful.
43:43	N:N	N:-	There is a difference between plants, just as there is a difference between men."
44:44	N:N	H:N	Then the sunbeam spoke of the boundless love of God, as seen in creation, and over all that lives, and of the equal distribution of His gifts, both in time and in eternity.
45:45	N:N	N:N	"That is your opinion," said the apple-bough.
46:46	N:N	N:N	Then some people came into the room, and, among them, the young countess,- the lady who had placed the apple-bough in the transparent vase, so pleasantly beneath the rays of the sunlight.
47:47	N:N	N:N	She carried in her hand something that seemed like a flower.
48:48	N:N	N:N	The object was hidden by two or three great leaves, which covered it like a shield, so that no draught or gust of wind could injure it, and it was carried more carefully than the apple-branch had ever been.
49:49	N:N	N:H	Very cautiously the large leaves were removed, and there appeared the feathery seed-crown of the despised dandelion.
50:50	N:N	N:N	This was what the lady had so carefully plucked, and carried home so safely covered, so that not one of the delicate feathery arrows of which its mist-like shape was so lightly formed, should flutter away.
51:51	N:N	N:H	She now drew it forth quite uninjured, and wondered at its beautiful form, and airy lightness, and singular construction, so soon to be blown away by the wind.
52:52	H:N	H:H	"See," she exclaimed, "how wonderfully God has made this little flower.
53:53	H:N	H:H	I will paint it with the apple-branch together.
54:54	N:N	H:N	Every one admires the beauty of the apple-bough; but this humble flower has been endowed by Heaven with another kind of loveliness; and although they differ in appearance, both are the children of the realms of beauty."
55:55	N:N	H:H	Then the sunbeam kissed the lowly flower, and he kissed the blooming apple-branch, upon whose leaves appeared a rosy blush.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the garden all the apple-trees were in blossom.
1:1	N:N	N:N	They had hastened to bring forth flowers before they got green leaves, and in the yard all the ducklings walked up and down, and the cat too: it basked in the sun and licked the sunshine from its own paws.
2:2	N:N	H:N	And when one looked at the fields, how beautifully the corn stood and how green it shone, without comparison! and there was a twittering and a fluttering of all the little birds, as if the day were a great festival; and so it was, for it was Sunday.
3:3	N:N	H:N	All the bells were ringing, and all the people went to church, looking cheerful, and dressed in their best clothes.
4:4	N:N	H:H	There was a look of cheerfulness on everything.
5:5	N:N	H:H	The day was so warm and beautiful that one might well have said: "God's kindness to us men is beyond all limits."
6:6	A:A	A:A	But inside the church the pastor stood in the pulpit, and spoke very loudly and angrily.
7:7	A:N	A:A	He said that all men were wicked, and God would punish them for their sins, and that the wicked, when they died, would be cast into hell, to burn for ever and ever.
8:8	A:A	A:A	He spoke very excitedly, saying that their evil propensities would not be destroyed, nor would the fire be extinguished, and they should never find rest.
9:9	N:N	A:A	That was terrible to hear, and he said it in such a tone of conviction; he described hell to them as a miserable hole where all the refuse of the world gathers.
10:10	N:N	A:A	There was no air beside the hot burning sulphur flame, and there was no ground under their feet; they, the wicked ones, sank deeper and deeper, while eternal silence surrounded them!
11:11	F:F	F:F	It was dreadful to hear all that, for the preacher spoke from his heart, and all the people in the church were terrified.
12:12	H:N	N:H	Meanwhile, the birds sang merrily outside, and the sun was shining so beautifully warm, it seemed as though every little flower said: "God, Thy kindness towards us all is without limits."
13:13	N:N	N:N	Indeed, outside it was not at all like the pastor's sermon.
14:14	Sa:N	N:N	The same evening, upon going to bed, the pastor noticed his wife sitting there quiet and pensive.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"What is the matter with you?" he asked her.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"Well, the matter with me is," she said, "that I cannot collect my thoughts, and am unable to grasp the meaning of what you said to-day in church- that there are so many wicked people, and that they should burn eternally.
17:17	F:N	N:N	Alas! eternally- how long!
18:18	Sa:Su-	N:F	I am only a woman and a sinner before God, but I should not have the heart to let even the worst sinner burn for ever, and how could our Lord to do so, who is so infinitely good, and who knows how the wickedness comes from without and within?
19:19	Su-:N	N:N	No, I am unable to imagine that, although you say so."
20:20	N:N	N:S	It was autumn; the trees dropped their leaves, the earnest and severe pastor sat at the bedside of a dying person.
21:21	N:N	S:S	A pious, faithful soul closed her eyes for ever; she was the pastor's wife. ..."If any one shall find rest in the grave and mercy before our Lord you shall certainly do so," said the pastor.
22:22	N:N	S:S	He folded her hands and read a psalm over the dead woman.
23:23	Sa:N	S:S	She was buried; two large tears rolled over the cheeks of the earnest man, and in the parsonage it was empty and still, for its sun had set for ever.
24:24	N:N	S:S	She had gone home.
25:25	N:N	N:N	It was night.
26:26	N:N	N:N	A cold wind swept over the pastor's head; he opened his eyes, and it seemed to him as if the moon was shining into his room.
27:27	N:N	N:F	It was not so, however; there was a being standing before his bed, and looking like the ghost of his deceased wife.
28:28	N:Sa	N:F	She fixed her eyes upon him with such a kind and sad expression, just as if she wished to say something to him.
29:29	Su-:Su-	-:S	The pastor raised himself in bed and stretched his arms towards her, saying, "Not even you can find eternal rest!
30:30	Su-:Su-	-:S	You suffer, you best and most pious woman?"
31:31	N:N	-:S	The dead woman nodded her head as if to say "Yes," and put her hand on her breast.
32:32	Su-:N	-:S	"And can I not obtain rest in the grave for you?"
33:33	N:N	-:S	"Yes," was the answer.
34:34	N:N	-:S	"And how?"
35:35	N:N	N:N	"Give me one hair- only one single hair- from the head of the sinner for whom the fire shall never be extinguished, of the sinner whom God will condemn to eternal punishment in hell."
36:36	N:N	N:N	"Yes, one ought to be able to redeem you so easily, you pure, pious woman," he said.
37:37	N:N	N:F	"Follow me," said the dead woman.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"It is thus granted to us.
39:39	N:N	N:N	By my side you will be able to fly wherever your thoughts wish to go.
40:40	N:N	N:F	Invisible to men, we shall penetrate into their most secret chambers; but with sure hand you must find out him who is destined to eternal torture, and before the cock crows he must be found!"
41:41	N:N	-:F	As quickly as if carried by the winged thoughts they were in the great city, and from the walls the names of the deadly sins shone in flaming letters: pride, avarice, drunkenness, wantonness- in short, the whole seven-coloured bow of sin.
42:42	Su-:N	-:N	"Yes, therein, as I believed, as I knew it," said the pastor, "are living those who are abandoned to the eternal fire."
43:43	N:N	N:N	And they were standing before the magnificently illuminated gate; the broad steps were adorned with carpets and flowers, and dance music was sounding through the festive halls.
44:44	N:N	N:N	A footman dressed in silk and velvet stood with a large silver-mounted rod near the entrance.
45:45	N:N	N:A	"Our ball can compare favourably with the king's," he said, and turned with contempt towards the gazing crowd in the street.
46:46	D:N	D:A	What he thought was sufficiently expressed in his features and movements: "Miserable beggars, who are looking in, you are nothing in comparison to me."
47:47	N:N	D:N	"Pride," said the dead woman; "do you see him?"
48:48	N:N	N:N	"The footman?" asked the pastor.
49:49	Su-:N	-:+	"He is but a poor fool, and not doomed to be tortured eternally by fire!"
50:50	N:Su-	-:-	"Only a fool!"
51:51	N:N	N:N	It sounded through the whole house of pride: they were all fools there.
52:52	N:N	N:N	Then they flew within the four naked walls of the miser.
53:53	N:N	N:N	Lean as a skeleton, trembling with cold, and hunger, the old man was clinging with all his thoughts to his money.
54:54	N:N	N:S	They saw him jump up feverishly from his miserable couch and take a loose stone out of the wall; there lay gold coins in an old stocking.
55:55	N:N	N:S	They saw him anxiously feeling over an old ragged coat in which pieces of gold were sewn, and his clammy fingers trembled.
56:56	Su-:N	-:-	"He is ill!
57:57	Su-:N	-:-	That is madness- a joyless madness- besieged by fear and dreadful dreams!"
58:58	N:N	N:N	They quickly went away and came before the beds of the criminals; these unfortunate people slept side by side, in long rows.
59:59	A:A	A:N	Like a ferocious animal, one of them rose out of his sleep and uttered a horrible cry, and gave his comrade a violent dig in the ribs with his pointed elbow, and this one turned round in his sleep: "Be quiet, monster- sleep!
60:60	A:N	A:N	This happens every night!"
61:61	A:N	A:-	"Every night!" repeated the other.
62:62	A:N	A:-	"Yes, every night he comes and tortures me!
63:63	N:N	A:N	In my violence I have done this and that.
64:64	N:N	N:N	I was born with an evil mind, which has brought me hither for the second time; but if I have done wrong I suffer punishment for it.
65:65	N:N	N:N	One thing, however, I have not yet confessed.
66:66	N:N	N:N	When I came out a little while ago, and passed by the yard of my former master, evil thoughts rose within me when I remembered this and that.
67:67	N:N	N:-	I struck a match a little bit on the wall; probably it came a little too close to the thatched roof.
68:68	N:N	N:-	All burnt down- a great heat rose, such as sometimes overcomes me.
69:69	Sa:N	S:S	I myself helped to rescue cattle and things, nothing alive burnt, except a flight of pigeons, which flew into the fire, and the yard dog, of which I had not thought; one could hear him howl out of the fire, and this howling I still hear when I wish to sleep; and when I have fallen asleep, the great rough dog comes and places himself upon me, and howls, presses, and tortures me.
70:70	N:N	S:N	Now listen to what I tell you!
71:71	A:N	A:N	You can snore; you are snoring the whole night, and I hardly a quarter of an hour!"
72:72	A:A	A:A	And the blood rose to the head of the excited criminal; he threw himself upon his comrade, and beat him with his clenced fist in the face.
73:73	D:N	D:A	"Wicked Matz has become mad again!" they said amongst themselves.
74:74	N:N	A:-	The other criminals seized him, wrestled with him, and bent him double, so that his head rested between his knees, and they tied him, so that the blood almost came out of his eyes and out of all his pores.
75:75	Sa:Su-	S:-	"You are killing the unfortunate man," said the pastor, and as he stretched out his hand to protect him who already suffered too much, the scene changed.
76:76	N:N	-:N	They flew through rich halls and wretched hovels; wantonness and envy, all the deadly sins, passed before them.
77:77	N:N	N:N	An angel of justice read their crimes and their defence; the latter was not a brilliant one, but it was read before God, Who reads the heart, Who knows everything, the wickedness that comes from within and from without, Who is mercy and love personified.
78:78	F:F	F:F	The pastor's hand trembled; he dared not stretch it out, he did not venture to pull a hair out of the sinner's head.
79:79	F:Sa	F:F	And tears gushed from his eyes like a stream of mercy and love, the cooling waters of which extinguished the eternal fire of hell.
80:80	N:N	N:N	Just then the cock crowed.
81:81	F:N	F:S	"Father of all mercy, grant Thou to her the peace that I was unable to procure for her!"
82:82	H:N	H:+	"I have it now!" said the dead woman.
83:83	N:N	H:N	"It was your hard words, your despair of mankind, your gloomy belief in God and His creation, which drove me to you.
84:84	N:N	N:N	Learn to know mankind!
85:85	N:N	N:N	Even in the wicked one lives a part of God- and this extinguishes and conquers the flame of hell!"
86:86	N:N	+:+	The pastor felt a kiss on his lips; a gleam of light surrounded him- God's bright sun shone into the room, and his wife, alive, sweet and full of love, awoke him from a dream which God had sent him!
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a sculptor, named Alfred, who having won the large gold medal and obtained a travelling scholarship, went to Italy, and then came back to his native land.
1:1	N:N	N:N	He was young at that time- indeed, he is young still, although he is ten years older than he was then.
2:2	N:N	N:N	On his return, he went to visit one of the little towns in the island of Zealand.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The whole town knew who the stranger was; and one of the richest men in the place gave a party in his honor, and all who were of any consequence, or who possessed some property, were invited.
4:4	N:N	N:N	It was quite an event, and all the town knew of it, so that it was not necessary to announce it by beat of drum.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Apprentice-boys, children of the poor, and even the poor people themselves, stood before the house, watching the lighted windows; and the watchman might easily fancy he was giving a party also, there were so many people in the streets.
6:6	N:N	H:N	There was quite an air of festivity about it, and the house was full of it; for Mr. Alfred, the sculptor, was there.
7:7	N:H	H:H	He talked and told anecdotes, and every one listened to him with pleasure, not unmingled with awe; but none felt so much respect for him as did the elderly widow of a naval officer.
8:8	N:N	N:H	She seemed, so far as Mr. Alfred was concerned, to be like a piece of fresh blotting-paper that absorbed all he said and asked for more.
9:9	N:N	N:N	She was very appreciative, and incredibly ignorant- a kind of female Gaspar Hauser.
10:10	N:H	H:H	"I should like to see Rome," she said; "it must be a lovely city, or so many foreigners would not be constantly arriving there.
11:11	N:N	N:N	Now, do give me a description of Rome.
12:12	N:N	N:N	How does the city look when you enter in at the gate?"
13:13	N:N	N:N	"I cannot very well describe it," said the sculptor; "but you enter on a large open space, in the centre of which stands an obelisk, which is a thousand years old."
14:14	Su+:H	+:H	"An organist!" exclaimed the lady, who had never heard the word 'obelisk.'
15:15	N:H	N:H	Several of the guests could scarcely forbear laughing, and the sculptor would have had some difficulty in keeping his countenance, but the smile on his lips faded away; for he caught sight of a pair of dark-blue eyes close by the side of the inquisitive lady.
16:16	N:N	N:N	They belonged to her daughter; and surely no one who had such a daughter could be silly.
17:17	N:N	N:N	The mother was like a fountain of questions; and the daughter, who listened but never spoke, might have passed for the beautiful maid of the fountain.
18:18	N:N	H:N	How charming she was!
19:19	N:H	N:H	She was a study for the sculptor to contemplate, but not to converse with; for she did not speak, or, at least, very seldom.
20:20	N:N	N:N	"Has the pope a great family?" inquired the lady.
21:21	N:N	N:N	The young man answered considerately, as if the question had been a different one, "No; he does not come from a great family."
22:22	N:N	N:N	"That is not what I asked," persisted the widow; "I mean, has he a wife and children?"
23:23	N:N	N:N	"The pope is not allowed to marry," replied the gentleman.
24:24	D:A	N:A	"I don't like that," was the lady's remark.
25:25	N:N	N:N	She certainly might have asked more sensible questions; but if she had not been allowed to say just what she liked, would her daughter have been there, leaning so gracefully on her shoulder, and looking straight before her, with a smile that was almost mournful on her face?
26:26	H:H	H:H	Mr. Alfred again spoke of Italy, and of the glorious colors in Italian scenery; the purple hills, the deep blue of the Mediterranean, the azure of southern skies, whose brightness and glory could only be surpassed in the north by the deep-blue eyes of a maiden; and he said this with a peculiar intonation; but she who should have understood his meaning looked quite unconscious of it, which also was charming.
27:27	N:H	H:H	"Beautiful Italy!" sighed some of the guests.
28:28	N:H	H:H	"Oh, to travel there!" exclaimed others.
29:29	N:F	H:H	"Charming!
30:30	N:H	H:H	Charming!" echoed from every voice.
31:31	H:N	H:N	"I may perhaps win a hundred thousand dollars in the lottery," said the naval officer's widow; "and if I do, we will travel- I and my daughter; and you, Mr. Alfred, must be our guide.
32:32	H:N	H:N	We can all three travel together, with one or two more of our good friends."
33:33	N:H	H:H	And she nodded in such a friendly way at the company, that each imagined himself to be the favored person who was to accompany them to Italy.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"Yes, we must go," she continued; "but not to those parts where there are robbers.
35:35	N:N	N:N	We will keep to Rome.
36:36	N:N	N:N	In the public roads one is always safe."
37:37	N:N	N:N	The daughter sighed very gently; and how much there may be in a sigh, or attributed to it!
38:38	N:N	N:N	The young man attributed a great deal of meaning to this sigh.
39:39	N:H	N:H	Those deep-blue eyes, which had been lit up this evening in honor of him, must conceal treasures, treasures of heart and mind, richer than all the glories of Rome; and so when he left the party that night, he had lost it completely to the young lady.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The house of the naval officer's widow was the one most constantly visited by Mr. Alfred, the sculptor.
41:41	N:N	N:N	It was soon understood that his visits were not intended for that lady, though they were the persons who kept up the conversation.
42:42	N:N	N:N	He came for the sake of the daughter.
43:43	N:N	N:N	They called her Kaela.
44:44	N:N	N:N	Her name was really Karen Malena, and these two names had been contracted into the one name Kaela.
45:45	N:N	N:N	She was really beautiful; but some said she was rather dull, and slept late of a morning.
46:46	N:N	N:N	"She has been accustomed to that," her mother said.
47:47	N:N	N:N	"She is a beauty, and they are always easily tired.
48:48	N:N	N:N	She does sleep rather late; but that makes her eyes so clear."
49:49	N:N	N:N	What power seemed to lie in the depths of those dark eyes!
50:50	H:H	H:H	The young man felt the truth of the proverb, "Still waters run deep:" and his heart had sunk into their depths.
51:51	N:N	H:N	He often talked of his adventures, and the mamma was as simple and eager in her questions as on the first evening they met.
52:52	N:H	H:H	It was a pleasure to hear Alfred describe anything.
53:53	N:N	H:N	He showed them colored plates of Naples, and spoke of excursions to Mount Vesuvius, and the eruptions of fire from it.
54:54	N:N	N:N	The naval officer's widow had never heard of them before.
55:55	Su+:Su+	+:+	"Good heavens!" she exclaimed.
56:56	N:N	+:N	"So that is a burning mountain; but is it not very dangerous to the people who live near it?"
57:57	N:N	N:N	"Whole cities have been destroyed," he replied; "for instance, Herculaneum and Pompeii."
58:58	Su-:F	-:F	"Oh, the poor people!
59:59	Su-:N	-:N	And you saw all that with your own eyes?"
60:60	N:N	N:N	"No; I did not see any of the eruptions which are represented in those pictures; but I will show you a sketch of my own, which represents an eruption I once saw."
61:61	Su+:Su+	+:+	He placed a pencil sketch on the table; and mamma, who had been over-powered with the appearance of the colored plates, threw a glance at the pale drawing and cried in astonishment, "What, did you see it throw up white fire?"
62:62	N:D	N:D	For a moment, Alfred's respect for Kaela's mamma underwent a sudden shock, and lessened considerably; but, dazzled by the light which surrounded Kaela, he soon found it quite natural that the old lady should have no eye for color.
63:63	N:N	N:N	After all, it was of very little consequence; for Kaela's mamma had the best of all possessions; namely, Kaela herself.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Alfred and Kaela were betrothed, which was a very natural result; and the betrothal was announced in the newspaper of the little town.
65:65	N:N	H:N	Mama purchased thirty copies of the paper, that she might cut out the paragraph and send it to friends and acquaintances.
66:66	H:H	H:H	The betrothed pair were very happy, and the mother was happy too.
67:67	N:N	N:N	She said it seemed like connecting herself with Thorwalsden.
68:68	N:H	N:H	"You are a true successor of Thorwalsden," she said to Alfred; and it seemed to him as if, in this instance, mamma had said a clever thing.
69:69	H:N	H:N	Kaela was silent; but her eyes shone, her lips smiled, every movement was graceful,- in fact, she was beautiful; that cannot be repeated too often.
70:70	N:N	N:N	Alfred decided to take a bust of Kaela as well as of her mother.
71:71	N:N	N:N	They sat to him accordingly, and saw how he moulded and formed the soft clay with his fingers.
72:72	N:N	N:N	"I suppose it is only on our account that you perform this common-place work yourself, instead of leaving it to your servant to do all that sticking together."
73:73	N:N	N:N	"It is really necessary that I should mould the clay myself," he replied.
74:74	H:N	H:N	"Ah, yes, you are always so polite," said mamma, with a smile; and Kaela silently pressed his hand, all soiled as it was with the clay.
75:75	N:N	N:N	Then he unfolded to them both the beauties of Nature, in all her works; he pointed out to them how, in the scale of creation, inanimate matter was inferior to animate nature; the plant above the mineral, the animal above the plant, and man above them all.
76:76	N:N	N:N	He strove to show them how the beauty of the mind could be displayed in the outward form, and that it was the sculptor's task to seize upon that beauty of expression, and produce it in his works.
77:77	N:F	N:F	Kaela stood silent, but nodded in approbation of what he said, while mamma-in-law made the following confession:- "It is difficult to follow you; but I go hobbling along after you with my thoughts, though what you say makes my head whirl round and round.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Still I contrive to lay hold on some of it."
79:79	N:H	H:H	Kaela's beauty had a firm hold on Alfred; it filled his soul, and held a mastery over him.
80:80	N:N	H:N	Beauty beamed from Kaela's every feature, glittered in her eyes, lurked in the corners of her mouth, and pervaded every movement of her agile fingers.
81:81	N:N	N:N	Alfred, the sculptor, saw this.
82:82	N:N	H:N	He spoke only to her, thought only of her, and the two became one; and so it may be said she spoke much, for he was always talking to her; and he and she were one.
83:83	N:N	N:N	Such was the betrothal, and then came the wedding, with bride's-maids and wedding presents, all duly mentioned in the wedding speech.
84:84	N:N	N:N	Mamma-in-law had set up Thorwalsden's bust at the end of the table, attired in a dressing-gown; it was her fancy that he should be a guest.
85:85	N:H	H:H	Songs were sung, and cheers given; for it was a gay wedding, and they were a handsome pair.
86:86	N:N	N:N	"Pygmalion loved his Galatea," said one of the songs.
87:87	N:N	N:N	"Ah, that is some of your mythologies," said mamma-in-law.
88:88	N:N	N:N	Next day the youthful pair started for Copenhagen, where they were to live; mamma-in-law accompanied them, to attend to the "coarse work," as she always called the domestic arrangements.
89:89	N:N	H:N	Kaela looked like a doll in a doll's house, for everything was bright and new, and so fine.
90:90	N:N	N:N	There they sat, all three; and as for Alfred, a proverb may describe his position- he looked like a swan amongst the geese.
91:91	N:N	N:N	The magic of form had enchanted him; he had looked at the casket without caring to inquire what it contained, and that omission often brings the greatest unhappiness into married life.
92:92	N:N	D:N	The casket may be injured, the gilding may fall off, and then the purchaser regrets his bargain.
93:93	N:N	D:N	In a large party it is very disagreeable to find a button giving way, with no studs at hand to fall back upon; but it is worse still in a large company to be conscious that your wife and mother-in-law are talking nonsense, and that you cannot depend upon yourself to produce a little ready wit to carry off the stupidity of the whole affair.
94:94	N:N	N:N	The young married pair often sat together hand in hand; he would talk, but she could only now and then let fall a word in the same melodious voice, the same bell-like tones.
95:95	N:N	N:N	It was a mental relief when Sophy, one of her friends, came to pay them a visit.
96:96	N:N	N:N	Sophy was not, pretty.
97:97	N:N	N:N	She was, however, quite free from any physical deformity, although Kaela used to say she was a little crooked; but no eye, save an intimate acquaintance, would have noticed it.
98:98	N:N	N:N	She was a very sensible girl, yet it never occurred to her that she might be a dangerous person in such a house.
99:99	N:N	N:N	Her appearance created a new atmosphere in the doll's house, and air was really required, they all owned that.
100:100	N:D	N:D	They felt the want of a change of air, and consequently the young couple and their mother travelled to Italy.
101:101	H:H	N:H	"Thank heaven we are at home again within our own four walls," said mamma-in-law and daughter both, on their return after a year's absence.
102:102	D:D	D:D	"There is no real pleasure in travelling," said mamma; "to tell the truth, it's very wearisome; I beg pardon for saying so.
103:103	D:D	D:D	I was soon very tired of it, although I had my children with me; and, besides, it's very expensive work travelling, very expensive.
104:104	D:D	D:D	And all those galleries one is expected to see, and the quantity of things you are obliged to run after!
105:105	D:D	D:D	It must be done, for very shame; you are sure to be asked when you come back if you have seen everything, and will most likely be told that you've omitted to see what was best worth seeing of all.
106:106	D:D	D:D	I got tired at last of those endless Madonnas; I began to think I was turning into a Madonna myself."
107:107	N:D	D:D	"And then the living, mamma," said Kaela.
108:108	D:D	D:D	"Yes, indeed," she replied, "no such a thing as a respectable meat soup- their cookery is miserable stuff."
109:109	N:N	D:N	The journey had also tired Kaela; but she was always fatigued, that was the worst of it.
110:110	N:N	N:N	So they sent for Sophy, and she was taken into the house to reside with them, and her presence there was a great advantage.
111:111	N:H	N:H	Mamma-in-law acknowledged that Sophy was not only a clever housewife, but well-informed and accomplished, though that could hardly be expected in a person of her limited means.
112:112	N:N	N:N	She was also a generous-hearted, faithful girl; she showed that thoroughly while Kaela lay sick, fading away.
113:113	N:N	N:N	When the casket is everything, the casket should be strong, or else all is over.
114:114	N:N	S:N	And all was over with the casket, for Kaela died.
115:115	Sa:D	S:D	"She was beautiful," said her mother; "she was quite different from the beauties they call 'antiques,' for they are so damaged.
116:116	N:N	S:N	A beauty ought to be perfect, and Kaela was a perfect beauty."
117:117	Sa:Sa	S:S	Alfred wept, and mamma wept, and they both wore mourning.
118:118	Sa:N	S:N	The black dress suited mamma very well, and she wore mourning the longest.
119:119	Sa:Sa	S:S	She had also to experience another grief in seeing Alfred marry again, marry Sophy, who was nothing at all to look at.
120:120	D:D	D:D	"He's gone to the very extreme," said mamma-in-law; "he has gone from the most beautiful to the ugliest, and he has forgotten his first wife.
121:121	D:N	D:N	Men have no constancy.
122:122	N:N	N:N	My husband was a very different man,- but then he died before me."
123:123	H:H	H:H	"'Pygmalion loved his Galatea,' was in the song they sung at my first wedding," said Alfred; "I once fell in love with a beautiful statue, which awoke to life in my arms; but the kindred soul, which is a gift from heaven, the angel who can feel and sympathize with and elevate us, I have not found and won till now.
124:124	N:N	H:N	You came, Sophy, not in the glory of outward beauty, though you are even fairer than is necessary.
125:125	N:N	N:N	The chief thing still remains.
126:126	N:N	H:N	You came to teach the sculptor that his work is but dust and clay only, an outward form made of a material that decays, and that what we should seek to obtain is the ethereal essence of mind and spirit.
127:127	N:N	N:N	Poor Kaela! our life was but as a meeting by the way-side; in yonder world, where we shall know each other from a union of mind, we shall be but mere acquaintances."
128:128	D:D	N:D	"That was not a loving speech," said Sophy, "nor spoken like a Christian.
129:129	N:N	H:N	In a future state, where there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage, but where, as you say, souls are attracted to each other by sympathy; there everything beautiful develops itself, and is raised to a higher state of existence: her soul will acquire such completeness that it may harmonize with yours, even more than mine, and you will then once more utter your first rapturous exclamation of your love, 'Beautiful, most beautiful!'"
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once an Emperor who had a horse shod with gold.
1:1	N:N	N:N	He had a golden shoe on each foot, and why was this?
2:2	N:N	N:N	He was a beautiful creature, with slender legs, bright, intelligent eyes, and a mane that hung down over his neck like a veil.
3:3	N:N	N:N	He had carried his master through fire and smoke in the battle-field, with the bullets whistling round him; he had kicked and bitten, and taken part in the fight, when the enemy advanced; and, with his master on his back, he had dashed over the fallen foe, and saved the golden crown and the Emperor's life, which was of more value than the brightest gold.
4:4	N:N	N:N	This is the reason of the Emperor's horse wearing golden shoes.
5:5	N:N	N:N	A beetle came creeping forth from the stable, where the farrier had been shoeing the horse.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"Great ones, first, of course," said he, "and then the little ones; but size is not always a proof of greatness."
7:7	N:N	N:N	He stretched out his thin leg as he spoke.
8:8	N:N	N:N	"And pray what do you want?" asked the farrier.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"Golden shoes," replied the beetle.
10:10	Su-:Su-	-:N	"Why, you must be out of your senses," cried the farrier.
11:11	Su-:N	-:-	"Golden shoes for you, indeed!"
12:12	N:N	N:N	"Yes, certainly; golden shoes," replied the beetle.
13:13	N:N	N:-	"Am I not just as good as that great creature yonder, who is waited upon and brushed, and has food and drink placed before him?
14:14	N:N	N:N	And don't I belong to the royal stables?"
15:15	Su-:N	-:-	"But why does the horse have golden shoes?" asked the farrier; "of course you understand the reason?"
16:16	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Understand!
17:17	A:N	-:-	Well, I understand that it is a personal slight to me," cried the beetle.
18:18	A:N	A:-	"It is done to annoy me, so I intend to go out into the world and seek my fortune."
19:19	N:N	N:N	"Go along with you," said the farrier.
20:20	A:A	A:-	"You're a rude fellow," cried the beetle, as he walked out of the stable; and then he flew for a short distance, till he found himself in a beautiful flower-garden, all fragrant with roses and lavender.
21:21	H:N	H:N	The lady-birds, with red and black shells on their backs, and delicate wings, were flying about, and one of them said, "Is it not sweet and lovely here?
22:22	H:N	H:H	Oh, how beautiful everything is."
23:23	D:N	N:-	"I am accustomed to better things," said the beetle.
24:24	D:Su-	D:-	"Do you call this beautiful?
25:25	D:N	D:-	Why, there is not even a dung-heap."
26:26	N:N	N:N	Then he went on, and under the shadow of a large haystack he found a caterpillar crawling along.
27:27	H:H	H:H	"How beautiful this world is!" said the caterpillar.
28:28	H:H	H:H	"The sun is so warm, I quite enjoy it.
29:29	H:N	H:H	And soon I shall go to sleep, and die as they call it, but I shall wake up with beautiful wings to fly with, like a butterfly."
30:30	D:Su-	D:-	"How conceited you are!" exclaimed the beetle.
31:31	D:Su-	D:-	"Fly about as a butterfly, indeed! what of that.
32:32	D:N	D:-	I have come out of the Emperor's stable, and no one there, not even the Emperor's horse, who, in fact, wears my cast-off golden shoes, has any idea of flying, excepting myself.
33:33	D:N	D:-	To have wings and fly! why, I can do that already;" and so saying, he spread his wings and flew away.
34:34	D:D	D:-	"I don't want to be disgusted," he said to himself, "and yet I can't help it."
35:35	N:N	N:N	Soon after, he fell down upon an extensive lawn, and for a time pretended to sleep, but at last fell asleep in earnest.
36:36	N:N	N:-	Suddenly a heavy shower of rain came falling from the clouds.
37:37	N:N	N:N	The beetle woke up with the noise and would have been glad to creep into the earth for shelter, but he could not.
38:38	N:N	N:N	He was tumbled over and over with the rain, sometimes swimming on his stomach and sometimes on his back; and as for flying, that was out of the question.
39:39	F:N	F:S	He began to doubt whether he should escape with his life, so he remained, quietly lying where he was.
40:40	N:N	N:N	After a while the weather cleared up a little, and the beetle was able to rub the water from his eyes, and look about him.
41:41	N:N	N:N	He saw something gleaming, and he managed to make his way up to it.
42:42	N:N	N:N	It was linen which had been laid to bleach on the grass.
43:43	N:N	N:N	He crept into a fold of the damp linen, which certainly was not so comfortable a place to lie in as the warm stable, but there was nothing better, so he remained lying there for a whole day and night, and the rain kept on all the time.
44:44	A:A	A:N	Towards morning he crept out of his hiding-place, feeling in a very bad temper with the climate.
45:45	H:N	H:N	Two frogs were sitting on the linen, and their bright eyes actually glistened with pleasure.
46:46	H:H	H:H	"Wonderful weather this," cried one of them, "and so refreshing.
47:47	H:N	H:N	This linen holds the water together so beautifully, that my hind legs quiver as if I were going to swim."
48:48	N:N	H:N	"I should like to know," said another, "If the swallow who flies so far in her many journeys to foreign lands, ever met with a better climate than this.
49:49	H:N	H:H	What delicious moisture!
50:50	H:N	H:H	It is as pleasant as lying in a wet ditch.
51:51	N:N	H:N	I am sure any one who does not enjoy this has no love for his fatherland."
52:52	N:N	N:N	"Have you ever been in the Emperor's stable?" asked the beetle.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"There the moisture is warm and refreshing; that's the climate for me, but I could not take it with me on my travels.
54:54	D:N	D:N	Is there not even a dunghill here in this garden, where a person of rank, like myself, could take up his abode and feel at home?"
55:55	N:N	N:N	But the frogs either did not or would not understand him.
56:56	N:N	N:N	"I never ask a question twice," said the beetle, after he had asked this one three times, and received no answer.
57:57	N:N	N:N	Then he went on a little farther and stumbled against a piece of broken crockery-ware, which certainly ought not to have been lying there.
58:58	N:N	N:N	But as it was there, it formed a good shelter against wind and weather to several families of earwigs who dwelt in it.
59:59	N:N	N:N	Their requirements were not many, they were very sociable, and full of affection for their children, so much so that each mother considered her own child the most beautiful and clever of them all.
60:60	H:N	H:H	"Our dear son has engaged himself," said one mother, "dear innocent boy; his greatest ambition is that he may one day creep into a clergyman's ear.
61:61	H:N	H:N	That is a very artless and loveable wish; and being engaged will keep him steady.
62:62	H:H	H:H	What happiness for a mother!"
63:63	N:N	H:N	"Our son," said another, "had scarcely crept out of the egg, when he was off on his travels.
64:64	N:N	H:N	He is all life and spirits, I expect he will wear out his horns with running.
65:65	H:H	H:H	How charming this is for a mother, is it not Mr. Beetle?" for she knew the stranger by his horny coat.
66:66	N:N	N:N	"You are both quite right," said he; so they begged him to walk in, that is to come as far as he could under the broken piece of earthenware.
67:67	H:N	H:N	"Now you shall also see my little earwigs," said a third and a fourth mother, "they are lovely little things, and highly amusing.
68:68	N:N	H:N	They are never ill-behaved, except when they are uncomfortable in their inside, which unfortunately often happens at their age."
69:69	N:N	H:N	Thus each mother spoke of her baby, and their babies talked after their own fashion, and made use of the little nippers they have in their tails to nip the beard of the beetle.
70:70	D:H	D:N	"They are always busy about something, the little rogues," said the mother, beaming with maternal pride; but the beetle felt it a bore, and he therefore inquired the way to the nearest dung-heap.
71:71	N:F	N:N	"That is quite out in the great world, on the other side of the ditch," answered an earwig, "I hope none of my children will ever go so far, it would be the death of me."
72:72	N:N	N:-	"But I shall try to get so far," said the beetle, and he walked off without taking any formal leave, which is considered a polite thing to do.
73:73	H:N	H:N	When he arrived at the ditch, he met several friends, all them beetles; "We live here," they said, "and we are very comfortable.
74:74	N:N	N:N	May we ask you to step down into this rich mud, you must be fatigued after your journey."
75:75	H:H	H:H	"Certainly," said the beetle, "I shall be most happy; I have been exposed to the rain, and have had to lie upon linen, and cleanliness is a thing that greatly exhausts me; I have also pains in one of my wings from standing in the draught under a piece of broken crockery.
76:76	H:N	H:H	It is really quite refreshing to be with one's own kindred again."
77:77	N:N	N:N	"Perhaps you came from a dung-heap," observed the oldest of them.
78:78	N:N	N:N	"No, indeed, I came from a much grander place," replied the beetle; "I came from the emperor's stable, where I was born, with golden shoes on my feet.
79:79	N:N	N:N	I am travelling on a secret embassy, but you must not ask me any questions, for I cannot betray my secret."
80:80	N:N	N:N	Then the beetle stepped down into the rich mud, where sat three young-lady beetles, who tittered, because they did not know what to say.
81:81	N:Su-	N:N	"None of them are engaged yet," said their mother, and the beetle maidens tittered again, this time quite in confusion.
82:82	Su+:Su+	+:H	"I have never seen greater beauties, even in the royal stables," exclaimed the beetle, who was now resting himself.
83:83	N:N	N:N	"Don't spoil my girls," said the mother; "and don't talk to them, pray, unless you have serious intentions."
84:84	N:N	N:N	But of course the beetle's intentions were serious, and after a while our friend was engaged.
85:85	H:H	H:H	The mother gave them her blessing, and all the other beetles cried "hurrah."
86:86	N:N	H:N	Immediately after the betrothal came the marriage, for there was no reason to delay.
87:87	N:N	N:N	The following day passed very pleasantly, and the next was tolerably comfortable; but on the third it became necessary for him to think of getting food for his wife, and, perhaps, for children.
88:88	N:N	N:N	"I have allowed myself to be taken in," said our beetle to himself, "and now there's nothing to be done but to take them in, in return."
89:89	N:N	N:N	No sooner said than done.
90:90	N:N	N:-	Away he went, and stayed away all day and all night, and his wife remained behind a forsaken widow.
91:91	D:N	D:-	"Oh," said the other beetles, "this fellow that we have received into our family is nothing but a complete vagabond.
92:92	D:N	D:-	He has gone away and left his wife a burden upon our hands."
93:93	N:N	D:-	"Well, she can be unmarried again, and remain here with my other daughters," said the mother.
94:94	D:A	D:A	"Fie on the villain that forsook her!"
95:95	N:N	N:N	In the mean time the beetle, who had sailed across the ditch on a cabbage leaf, had been journeying on the other side.
96:96	N:N	N:N	In the morning two persons came up to the ditch.
97:97	N:N	N:N	When they saw him they took him up and turned him over and over, looking very learned all the time, especially one, who was a boy.
98:98	N:N	N:N	"Allah sees the black beetle in the black stone, and the black rock.
99:99	N:N	N:N	Is not that written in the Koran?" he asked.
100:100	N:N	N:N	Then he translated the beetle's name into Latin, and said a great deal upon the creature's nature and history.
101:101	N:N	N:N	The second person, who was older and a scholar, proposed to carry the beetle home, as they wanted just such good specimens as this.
102:102	D:N	D:N	Our beetle considered this speech a great insult, so he flew suddenly out of the speaker's hand.
103:103	N:N	N:N	His wings were dry now, so they carried him to a great distance, till at last he reached a hothouse, where a sash of the glass roof was partly open, so he quietly slipped in and buried himself in the warm earth.
104:104	N:N	N:N	"It is very comfortable here," he said to himself, and soon after fell asleep.
105:105	N:N	N:N	Then he dreamed that the emperor's horse was dying, and had left him his golden shoes, and also promised that he should have two more.
106:106	N:H	N:N	All this was very delightful, and when the beetle woke up he crept forth and looked around him.
107:107	H:N	H:N	What a splendid place the hothouse was!
108:108	N:N	H:H	At the back, large palm-trees were growing; and the sunlight made the leaves- look quite glossy; and beneath them what a profusion of luxuriant green, and of flowers red like flame, yellow as amber, or white as new-fallen snow!
109:109	H:H	H:H	"What a wonderful quantity of plants," cried the beetle; "how good they will taste when they are decayed!
110:110	N:N	H:H	This is a capital store-room.
111:111	N:N	N:N	There must certainly be some relations of mine living here; I will just see if I can find any one with whom I can associate.
112:112	N:N	N:H	I'm proud, certainly; but I'm also proud of being so.
113:113	N:N	H:H	Then he prowled about in the earth, and thought what a pleasant dream that was about the dying horse, and the golden shoes he had inherited.
114:114	N:N	-:-	Suddenly a hand seized the beetle, and squeezed him, and turned him round and round.
115:115	N:N	N:-	The gardener's little son and his playfellow had come into the hothouse, and, seeing the beetle, wanted to have some fun with him.
116:116	N:N	N:-	First, he was wrapped, in a vine-leaf, and put into a warm trousers' pocket.
117:117	F:N	F:-	He twisted and turned about with all his might, but he got a good squeeze from the boy's hand, as a hint for him to keep quiet.
118:118	N:N	N:-	Then the boy went quickly towards a lake that lay at the end of the garden.
119:119	N:N	N:-	Here the beetle was put into an old broken wooden shoe, in which a little stick had been fastened upright for a mast, and to this mast the beetle was bound with a piece of worsted.
120:120	N:N	N:-	Now he was a sailor, and had to sail away.
121:121	F:Su-	-:-	The lake was not very large, but to the beetle it seemed an ocean, and he was so astonished at its size that he fell over on his back, and kicked out his legs.
122:122	N:N	N:-	Then the little ship sailed away; sometimes the current of the water seized it, but whenever it went too far from the shore one of the boys turned up his trousers, and went in after it, and brought it back to land.
123:123	N:N	N:-	But at last, just as it went merrily out again, the two boys were called, and so angrily, that they hastened to obey, and ran away as fast as they could from the pond, so that the little ship was left to its fate.
124:124	N:N	N:-	It was carried away farther and farther from the shore, till it reached the open sea.
125:125	N:N	F:-	This was a terrible prospect for the beetle, for he could not escape in consequence of being bound to the mast.
126:126	N:N	N:N	Then a fly came and paid him a visit.
127:127	H:N	H:H	"What beautiful weather," said the fly; "I shall rest here and sun myself.
128:128	N:N	N:N	You must have a pleasant time of it."
129:129	D:A	D:A	"You speak without knowing the facts," replied the beetle; "don't you see that I am a prisoner?"
130:130	N:N	N:-	"Ah, but I'm not a prisoner," remarked the fly, and away he flew.
131:131	D:N	D:-	"Well, now I know the world," said the beetle to himself; "it's an abominable world; I'm the only respectable person in it.
132:132	D:N	D:-	First, they refuse me my golden shoes; then I have to lie on damp linen, and to stand in a draught; and to crown all, they fasten a wife upon me.
133:133	N:N	D:-	Then, when I have made a step forward in the world, and found out a comfortable position, just as I could wish it to be, one of these human boys comes and ties me up, and leaves me to the mercy of the wild waves, while the emperor's favorite horse goes prancing about proudly on his golden shoes.
134:134	A:A	D:A	This vexes me more than anything.
135:135	A:N	D:-	But it is useless to look for sympathy in this world.
136:136	Sa:N	S:-	My career has been very interesting, but what's the use of that if nobody knows anything about it?
137:137	D:N	D:-	The world does not deserve to be made acquainted with my adventures, for it ought to have given me golden shoes when the emperor's horse was shod, and I stretched out my feet to be shod, too.
138:138	Sa:N	S:-	If I had received golden shoes I should have been an ornament to the stable; now I am lost to the stable and to the world.
139:139	Sa:N	S:S	It is all over with me."
140:140	N:N	N:N	But all was not yet over.
141:141	N:N	N:N	A boat, in which were a few young girls, came rowing up.
142:142	N:N	N:N	"Look, yonder is an old wooden shoe sailing along," said one of the younger girls.
143:143	Su-:N	-:N	"And there's a poor little creature bound fast in it," said another.
144:144	N:N	N:N	The boat now came close to our beetle's ship, and the young girls fished it out of the water.
145:145	N:N	N:N	One of them drew a small pair of scissors from her pocket, and cut the worsted without hurting the beetle, and when she stepped on shore she placed him on the grass.
146:146	H:N	H:N	"There," she said, "creep away, or fly, if thou canst.
147:147	H:N	H:H	It is a splendid thing to have thy liberty."
148:148	N:N	H:+	Away flew the beetle, straight through the open window of a large building; there he sank down, tired and exhausted, exactly on the mane of the emperor's favorite horse, who was standing in his stable; and the beetle found himself at home again.
149:149	N:N	N:N	For some time he clung to the mane, that he might recover himself.
150:150	H:N	H:N	"Well," he said, "here I am, seated on the emperor's favorite horse,- sitting upon him as if I were the emperor himself.
151:151	N:N	N:N	But what was it the farrier asked me?
152:152	N:N	N:N	Ah, I remember now,- that's a good thought,- he asked me why the golden shoes were given to the horse.
153:153	N:N	N:N	The answer is quite clear to me, now.
154:154	H:N	H:-	They were given to the horse on my account."
155:155	H:H	H:-	And this reflection put the beetle into a good temper.
156:156	N:N	H:N	The sun's rays also came streaming into the stable, and shone upon him, and made the place lively and bright.
157:157	N:N	H:N	"Travelling expands the mind very much," said the beetle.
158:158	H:N	H:N	"The world is not so bad after all, if you know how to take things as they come.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the narrow streets of a large town people often heard in the evening, when the sun was setting, and his last rays gave a golden tint to the chimney-pots, a strange noise which resembled the sound of a church bell; it only lasted an instant, for it was lost in the continual roar of traffic and hum of voices which rose from the town.
1:1	N:N	N:N	"The evening bell is ringing," people used to say; "the sun is setting!"
2:2	N:N	N:N	Those who walked outside the town, where the houses were less crowded and interspersed by gardens and little fields, saw the evening sky much better, and heard the sound of the bell much more clearly.
3:3	N:N	N:N	It seemed as though the sound came from a church, deep in the calm, fragrant wood, and thither people looked with devout feelings.
4:4	N:N	N:N	A considerable time elapsed: one said to the other, "I really wonder if there is a church out in the wood.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The bell has indeed a strange sweet sound!
6:6	N:N	N:N	Shall we go there and see what the cause of it is?"
7:7	N:N	N:N	The rich drove, the poor walked, but the way seemed to them extraordinarily long, and when they arrived at a number of willow trees on the border of the wood they sat down, looked up into the great branches and thought they were now really in the wood.
8:8	N:N	N:N	A confectioner from the town also came out and put up a stall there; then came another confectioner who hung a bell over his stall, which was covered with pitch to protect it from the rain, but the clapper was wanting.
9:9	N:N	N:N	When people came home they used to say that it had been very romantic, and that really means something else than merely taking tea.
10:10	N:N	N:N	Three persons declared that they had gone as far as the end of the wood; they had always heard the strange sound, but there it seemed to them as if it came from the town.
11:11	N:N	N:N	One of them wrote verses about the bell, and said that it was like the voice of a mother speaking to an intelligent and beloved child; no tune, he said, was sweeter than the sound of the bell.
12:12	N:N	N:N	The emperor of the country heard of it, and declared that he who would really find out where the sound came from should receive the title of "Bellringer to the World," even if there was no bell at all.
13:13	N:N	N:N	Now many went out into the wood for the sake of this splendid berth; but only one of them came back with some sort of explanation.
14:14	N:N	N:N	None of them had gone far enough, nor had he, and yet he said that the sound of the bell came from a large owl in a hollow tree.
15:15	N:N	N:N	It was a wisdom owl, which continually knocked its head against the tree, but he was unable to say with certainty whether its head or the hollow trunk of the tree was the cause of the noise.
16:16	N:N	N:N	He was appointed "Bellringer to the World," and wrote every year a short dissertation on the owl, but by this means people did not become any wiser than they had been before.
17:17	N:N	N:N	It was just confirmation-day.
18:18	N:N	H:H	The clergyman had delivered a beautiful and touching sermon, the candidates were deeply moved by it; it was indeed a very important day for them; they were all at once transformed from mere children to grown-up people; the childish soul was to fly over, as it were, into a more reasonable being.
19:19	N:N	H:N	The sun shone most brightly; and the sound of the great unknown bell was heard more distinctly than ever.
20:20	N:N	H:N	They had a mind to go thither, all except three.
21:21	N:N	N:H	One of them wished to go home and try on her ball dress, for this very dress and the ball were the cause of her being confirmed this time, otherwise she would not have been allowed to go.
22:22	N:N	N:N	The second, a poor boy, had borrowed a coat and a pair of boots from the son of his landlord to be confirmed in, and he had to return them at a certain time.
23:23	N:N	N:N	The third said that he never went into strange places if his parents were not with him; he had always been a good child, and wished to remain so, even after being confirmed, and they ought not to tease him for this; they, however, did it all the same.
24:24	N:N	N:N	These three, therefore did not go; the others went on.
25:25	H:N	H:H	The sun was shining, the birds were singing, and the confirmed children sang too, holding each other by the hand, for they had no position yet, and they were all equal in the eyes of God.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Two of the smallest soon became tired and returned to the town; two little girls sat down and made garlands of flowers, they, therefore, did not go on.
27:27	Su-:N	-:-	When the others arrived at the willow trees, where the confectioner had put up his stall, they said: "Now we are out here; the bell does not in reality exist- it is only something that people imagine!"
28:28	N:N	+:N	Then suddenly the sound of the bell was heard so beautifully and solemnly from the wood that four or five made up their minds to go still further on.
29:29	N:N	N:N	The wood was very thickly grown.
30:30	N:N	N:H	It was difficult to advance: wood lilies and anemones grew almost too high; flowering convolvuli and brambles were hanging like garlands from tree to tree; while the nightingales were singing and the sunbeams played.
31:31	N:N	H:H	That was very beautiful!
32:32	N:N	N:N	But the way was unfit for the girls; they would have torn their dresses.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Large rocks, covered with moss of various hues, were lying about; the fresh spring water rippled forth with a peculiar sound.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"I don't think that can be the bell," said one of the confirmed children, and then he lay down and listened.
35:35	H:N	H:N	"We must try to find out if it is!"
36:36	N:N	N:N	And there he remained, and let the others walk on.
37:37	N:N	N:N	They came to a hut built of the bark of trees and branches; a large crab-apple tree spread its branches over it, as if it intended to pour all its fruit on the roof, upon which roses were blooming; the long boughs covered the gable, where a little bell was hanging.
38:38	N:N	N:N	Was this the one they had heard?
39:39	N:N	N:N	All agreed that it must be so, except one who said that the bell was too small and too thin to be heard at such a distance, and that it had quite a different sound to that which had so touched men's hearts.
40:40	N:N	N:N	He who spoke was a king's son, and therefore the others said that such a one always wishes to be cleverer than other people.
41:41	N:H	N:N	Therefore they let him go alone; and as he walked on, the solitude of the wood produced a feeling of reverence in his breast; but still he heard the little bell about which the others rejoiced, and sometimes, when the wind blew in that direction, he could hear the sounds from the confectioner's stall, where the others were singing at tea.
42:42	N:N	N:+	But the deep sounds of the bell were much stronger; soon it seemed to him as if an organ played an accompaniment- the sound came from the left, from the side where the heart is.
43:43	N:N	N:+	Now something rustled among the bushes, and a little boy stood before the king's son, in wooden shoes and such a short jacket that the sleeves did not reach to his wrists.
44:44	N:N	N:+	They knew each other: the boy was the one who had not been able to go with them because he had to take the coat and boots back to his landlord's son.
45:45	N:N	N:H	That he had done, and had started again in his wooden shoes and old clothes, for the sound of the bell was too enticing- he felt he must go on.
46:46	N:N	N:H	"We might go together," said the king's son.
47:47	Sa:F	N:N	But the poor boy with the wooden shoes was quite ashamed; he pulled at the short sleeves of his jacket, and said that he was afraid he could not walk so fast; besides, he was of opinion that the bell ought to be sought at the right, for there was all that was grand and magnificent.
48:48	N:N	N:S	"Then we shall not meet," said the king's son, nodding to the poor boy, who went into the deepest part of the wood, where the thorns tore his shabby clothes and scratched his hands, face, and feet until they bled.
49:49	N:N	N:N	The king's son also received several good scratches, but the sun was shining on his way, and it is he whom we will now follow, for he was a quick fellow.
50:50	H:N	H:N	"I will and must find the bell," he said, "if I have to go to the end of the world."
51:51	N:N	N:-	Ugly monkeys sat high in the branches and clenched their teeth.
52:52	N:N	N:N	"Shall we beat him?" they said.
53:53	N:N	N:-	"Shall we thrash him?
54:54	N:N	N:-	He is a king's son!"
55:55	N:N	H:H	But he walked on undaunted, deeper and deeper into the wood, where the most wonderful flowers were growing; there were standing white star lilies with blood-red stamens, sky-blue tulips shining when the wind moved them; apple-trees covered with apples like large glittering soap bubbles: only think how resplendent these trees were in the sunshine!
56:56	N:N	H:H	All around were beautiful green meadows, where hart and hind played in the grass.
57:57	N:N	H:H	There grew magnificent oaks and beech-trees; and if the bark was split of any of them, long blades of grass grew out of the clefts; there were also large smooth lakes in the wood, on which the swans were swimming about and flapping their wings.
58:58	N:N	N:H	The king's son often stood still and listened; sometimes he thought that the sound of the bell rose up to him out of one of these deep lakes, but soon he found that this was a mistake, and that the bell was ringing still farther in the wood.
59:59	D:Sa	D:S	Then the sun set, the clouds were as red as fire; it became quiet in the wood; he sank down on his knees, sang an evening hymn and said: "I shall never find what I am looking for!
60:60	N:N	N:F	Now the sun is setting, and the night, the dark night, is approaching.
61:61	N:N	N:F	Yet I may perhaps see the round sun once more before he disappears beneath the horizon.
62:62	N:N	N:N	I will climb up these rocks, they are as high as the highest trees!"
63:63	N:N	N:N	And then, taking hold of the creepers and roots, he climbed up on the wet stones, where water-snakes were wriggling and the toads, as it were, barked at him: he reached the top before the sun, seen from such a height, had quite set.
64:64	H:H	H:H	"Oh, what a splendour!"
65:65	N:H	H:H	The sea, the great majestic sea, which was rolling its long waves against the shore, stretched out before him, and the sun was standing like a large bright altar and there where sea and heaven met- all melted together in the most glowing colours; the wood was singing, and his heart too.
66:66	H:N	H:H	The whole of nature was one large holy church, in which the trees and hovering clouds formed the pillars, the flowers and grass the woven velvet carpet, and heaven itself was the great cupola; up there the flame colour vanished as soon as the sun disappeared, but millions of stars were lighted; diamond lamps were shining, and the king's son stretched his arms out towards heaven, towards the sea, and towards the wood.
67:67	N:N	+:+	Then suddenly the poor boy with the short-sleeved jacket and the wooden shoes appeared; he had arrived just as quickly on the road he had chosen.
68:68	H:H	H:H	And they ran towards each other and took one another's hand, in the great cathedral of nature and poesy, and above them sounded the invisible holy bell; happy spirits surrounded them, singing hallelujahs and rejoicing.
0:0	N:N	N:N	"DING-DONG! ding-dong!"
1:1	N:N	N:N	It sounds up from the "bell-deep" in the Odense-Au.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Every child in the old town of Odense, on the island of Funen, knows the Au, which washes the gardens round about the town, and flows on under the wooden bridges from the dam to the water-mill.
3:3	N:N	N:N	In the Au grow the yellow water-lilies and brown feathery reeds; the dark velvety flag grows there, high and thick; old and decayed willows, slanting and tottering, hang far out over the stream beside the monk's meadow and by the bleaching ground; but opposite there are gardens upon gardens, each different from the rest, some with pretty flowers and bowers like little dolls' pleasure grounds, often displaying cabbage and other kitchen plants; and here and there the gardens cannot be seen at all, for the great elder trees that spread themselves out by the bank, and hang far out over the streaming waters, which are deeper here and there than an oar can fathom.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Opposite the old nunnery is the deepest place, which is called the "bell-deep," and there dwells the old water spirit, the "Au-mann."
5:5	N:N	N:N	This spirit sleeps through the day while the sun shines down upon the water; but in starry and moonlit nights he shows himself.
6:6	N:N	N:N	He is very old.
7:7	Sa:N	S:S	Grandmother says that she has heard her own grandmother tell of him; he is said to lead a solitary life, and to have nobody with whom he can converse save the great old church Bell.
8:8	N:N	S:S	Once the Bell hung in the church tower; but now there is no trace left of the tower or of the church, which was called St. Alban's.
9:9	H:N	H:S	"Ding-dong! ding-dong!" sounded the Bell, when the tower still stood there; and one evening, while the sun was setting, and the Bell was swinging away bravely, it broke loose and came flying down through the air, the brilliant metal shining in the ruddy beam.
10:10	H:N	H:N	"Ding-dong! ding-dong!
11:11	H:H	H:N	Now I'll retire to rest!" sang the Bell, and flew down into the Odense-Au, where it is deepest; and that is why the place is called the "bell-deep."
12:12	Sa:N	F:S	But the Bell got neither rest nor sleep.
13:13	H:N	H:N	Down in the Au-mann's haunt it sounds and rings, so that the tones sometimes pierce upward through the waters; and many people maintain that its strains forebode the death of some one; but that is not true, for the Bell is only talking with the Au-mann, who is now no longer alone.
14:14	N:N	H:N	And what is the Bell telling?
15:15	N:N	H:N	It is old, very old, as we have already observed; it was there long before grandmother's grandmother was born; and yet it is but a child in comparison with the Au-mann, who is quite an old quiet personage, an oddity, with his hose of eel-skin, and his scaly Jacket with the yellow lilies for buttons, and a wreath of reed in his hair and seaweed in his beard; but he looks very pretty for all that.
16:16	N:N	H:N	What the Bell tells?
17:17	N:N	H:N	To repeat it all would require years and days; for year by year it is telling the old stories, sometimes short ones, sometimes long ones, according to its whim; it tells of old times, of the dark hard times, thus: "In the church of St. Alban, the monk had mounted up into the tower.
18:18	N:N	H:N	He was young and handsome, but thoughtful exceedingly.
19:19	N:N	H:N	He looked through the loophole out upon the Odense-Au, when the bed of the water was yet broad, and the monks' meadow was still a lake.
20:20	N:N	H:N	He looked out over it, and over the rampart, and over the nuns' hill opposite, where the convent lay, and the light gleamed forth from the nun's cell.
21:21	H:Su+	H:H	He had known the nun right well, and he thought of her, and his heart beat quicker as he thought.
22:22	H:N	H:H	Ding-dong! ding-dong!"
23:23	N:N	H:H	Yes, this was the story the Bell told.
24:24	F:A	H:A	"Into the tower came also the dapper man-servant of the bishop; and when I, the Bell, who am made of metal, rang hard and loud, and swung to and fro, I might have beaten out his brains.
25:25	N:N	H:N	He sat down close under me, and played with two little sticks as if they had been a stringed instrument; and he sang to it.
26:26	N:N	H:N	'Now I may sing it out aloud, though at other times I may not whisper it.
27:27	Sa:N	H:N	I may sing of everything that is kept concealed behind lock and bars.
28:28	Sa:N	H:N	Yonder it is cold and wet.
29:29	F:N	S:-	The rats are eating her up alive!
30:30	Sa:N	S:-	Nobody knows of it!
31:31	Sa:N	S:-	Nobody hears of it!
32:32	Sa:N	S:-	Not even now, for the bell is ringing and singing its loud Ding-dong, ding-dong!'
33:33	N:N	S:N	"There was a King in those days.
34:34	N:N	S:N	They called him Canute.
35:35	N:N	S:N	He bowed himself before bishop and monk; but when he offended the free peasants with heavy taxes and hard words, they seized their weapons and put him to flight like a wild beast.
36:36	F:N	S:-	He sought shelter in the church, and shut gate and door behind him.
37:37	N:N	S:-	The violent band surrounded the church; I heard tell of it.
38:38	N:N	S:-	The crows, ravens and magpies started up in terror at the yelling and shouting that sounded around.
39:39	N:N	S:F	They flew into the tower and out again, they looked down upon the throng below, and they also looked into the windows of the church, and screamed out aloud what they saw there.
40:40	N:N	S:F	King Canute knelt before the altar in prayer; his brothers Eric and Benedict stood by him as a guard with drawn swords; but the King's servant, the treacherous Blake, betrayed his master.
41:41	Sa:N	S:F	The throng in front of the church knew where they could hit the King, and one of them flung a stone through a pane of glass, and the King lay there dead!
42:42	Sa:F	S:F	The cries and screams of the savage horde and of the birds sounded through the air, and I joined in it also; for I sang 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'
43:43	H:N	S:N	"The church bell hangs high, and looks far around, and sees the birds around it, and understands their language.
44:44	H:N	S:N	The wind roars in upon it through windows and loopholes; and the wind knows everything, for he gets it from the air, which encircles all things, and the church bell understands his tongue, and rings it out into the world, 'Ding-dong! ding-dong!'
45:45	Sa:N	S:N	"But it was too much for me to hear and to know; I was not able any longer to ring it out.
46:46	Sa:N	S:N	I became so tired, so heavy, that the beam broke, and I flew out into the gleaming Au, where the water is deepest, and where the Au-mann lives, solitary and alone; and year by year I tell him what I have heard and what I know.
47:47	N:N	S:N	Ding-dong! ding-dong" Thus it sounds complainingly out of the bell-deep in the Odense-Au.
48:48	N:N	S:N	That is what grandmother told us.
49:49	Sa:N	S:N	But the schoolmaster says that there was not any bell that rung down there, for that it could not do so; and that no Au-mann dwelt yonder, for there was no Au-mann at all!
50:50	N:N	H:N	And when all the other church bells are sounding sweetly, he says that it is not really the bells that are sounding, but that it is the air itself which sends forth the notes; and grandmother said to us that the Bell itself said it was the air who told it to him, consequently they are agreed on that point, and this much is sure.
51:51	F:F	H:N	"Be cautious, cautious, and take good heed to thyself," they both say.
52:52	N:N	H:N	The air knows everything.
53:53	H:N	H:N	It is around us, it is in us, it talks of our thoughts and of our deeds, and it speaks longer of them than does the Bell down in the depths of the Odense-Au where the Au-mann dwells.
54:54	N:N	H:N	It rings it out in the vault of heaven, far, far out, forever and ever, till the heaven bells sound "Ding-dong! ding-dong!"
0:0	N:N	N:N	OUR scene is laid in Northern Jutland, in the so-called "wild moor."
1:1	N:N	N:N	We hear what is called the "Wester-wow-wow"- the peculiar roar of the North Sea as it breaks against the western coast of Jutland.
2:2	N:N	N:N	It rolls and thunders with a sound that penetrates for miles into the land; and we are quite near the roaring.
3:3	N:N	N:N	Before us rises a great mound of sand- a mountain we have long seen, and towards which we are wending our way, driving slowly along through the deep sand.
4:4	N:N	N:N	On this mountain of sand is a lofty old building- the convent of Borglum.
5:5	N:N	N:N	In one of its wings (the larger one) there is still a church.
6:6	N:N	N:N	And at this convent we now arrive in the late evening hour; but the weather is clear in the bright June night around us, and the eye can range far, far over field and moor to the Bay of Aalborg, over heath and meadow, and far across the deep blue sea.
7:7	N:N	N:N	Now we are there, and roll past between barns and other farm buildings; and at the left of the gate we turn aside to the Old Castle Farm, where the lime trees stand in lines along the walls, and, sheltered from the wind and weather, grow so luxuriantly that their twigs and leaves almost conceal the windows.
8:8	N:N	N:N	We mount the winding staircase of stone, and march through the long passages under the heavy roof-beams.
9:9	N:N	N:N	The wind moans very strangely here, both within and without.
10:10	N:N	N:-	It is hardly known how, but the people say- yes, people say a great many things when they are frightened or want to frighten others- they say that the old dead choir-men glide silently past us into the church, where mass is sung.
11:11	N:N	N:F	They can be heard in the rushing of the storm, and their singing brings up strange thoughts in the hearers- thoughts of the old times into which we are carried back.
12:12	N:N	N:F	On the coast a ship is stranded; and the bishop's warriors are there, and spare not those whom the sea has spared.
13:13	N:N	-:F	The sea washes away the blood that has flowed from the cloven skulls.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The stranded goods belong to the bishop, and there is a store of goods here.
15:15	N:N	N:N	The sea casts up tubs and barrels filled with costly wine for the convent cellar, and in the convent is already good store of beer and mead.
16:16	N:N	N:N	There is plenty in the kitchen- dead game and poultry, hams and sausages; and fat fish swim in the ponds without.
17:17	N:N	N:N	The Bishop of Borglum is a mighty lord.
18:18	N:N	N:N	He has great possessions, but still he longs for more- everything must bow before the mighty Olaf Glob.
19:19	N:N	N:N	His rich cousin at Thyland is dead, and his widow is to have the rich inheritance.
20:20	N:N	N:N	But how comes it that one relation is always harder towards another than even strangers would be?
21:21	N:N	N:N	The widow's husband had possessed all Thyland, with the exception of the church property.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Her son was not at home.
23:23	N:N	N:N	In his boyhood he had already started on a journey, for his desire was to see foreign lands and strange people.
24:24	N:N	N:-	For years there had been no news of him.
25:25	N:N	N:-	Perhaps he had been long laid in the grave, and would never come back to his home, to rule where his mother then ruled.
26:26	D:N	D:N	"What has a woman to do with rule?" said the bishop.
27:27	N:N	N:N	He summoned the widow before a law court; but what did he gain thereby?
28:28	N:N	N:N	The widow had never been disobedient to the law, and was strong in her just rights.
29:29	N:N	N:N	Bishop Olaf of Borglum, what dost thou purpose?
30:30	N:N	N:N	What writest thou on yonder smooth parchment, sealing it with thy seal, and intrusting it to the horsemen and servants, who ride away, far away, to the city of the Pope?
31:31	N:N	N:N	It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships, and soon icy winter will come.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Twice had icy winter returned before the bishop welcomed the horsemen and servants back to their home.
33:33	N:N	N:N	They came from Rome with a papal decree- a ban, or bull, against the widow who had dared to offend the pious bishop.
34:34	D:N	D:A	"Cursed be she and all that belongs to her.
35:35	D:A	D:A	Let her be expelled from the congregation and the Church.
36:36	D:A	D:-	Let no man stretch forth a helping hand to her, and let friends and relations avoid her as a plague and a pestilence!"
37:37	N:N	D:-	"What will not bend must break," said the Bishop of Borglum And all forsake the widow; but she holds fast to her God.
38:38	N:N	N:N	He is her helper and defender.
39:39	N:N	N:N	One servant only- an old maid- remained faithful to her; and with the old servant, the widow herself followed the plough; and the crop grew, although the land had been cursed by the Pope and by the bishop.
40:40	A:A	A:A	"Thou child of perdition, I will yet carry out my purpose!" cried the Bishop of Borglum.
41:41	A:N	A:A	"Now will I lay the hand of the Pope upon thee, to summon thee before the tribunal that shall condemn thee!"
42:42	N:N	N:N	Then did the widow yoke the last two oxen that remained to her to a wagon, and mounted up on the wagon, with her old servant, and travelled away across the heath out of the Danish land.
43:43	N:N	N:N	As a stranger she came into a foreign country, where a strange tongue was spoken and where new customs prevailed.
44:44	N:N	N:N	Farther and farther she journeyed, to where green hills rise into mountains, and the vine clothes their sides.
45:45	N:N	N:N	Strange merchants drive by her, and they look anxiously after their wagons laden with merchandise.
46:46	N:F	N:N	They fear an attack from the armed followers of the robber-knights.
47:47	N:N	N:N	The two poor women, in their humble vehicle drawn by two black oxen, travel fearlessly through the dangerous sunken road and through the darksome forest.
48:48	N:N	N:N	And now they were in Franconia.
49:49	N:N	N:N	And there met them a stalwart knight, with a train of twelve armed followers.
50:50	N:N	N:N	He paused, gazed at the strange vehicle, and questioned the women as to the goal of their journey and the place whence they came.
51:51	Sa:N	S:N	Then one of them mentioned Thyland in Denmark, and spoke of her sorrows, of her woes, which were soon to cease, for so Divine Providence had willed it.
52:52	N:N	+:+	For the stranger knight is the widow's son!
53:53	H:H	H:H	He seized her hand, he embraced her, and the mother wept.
54:54	N:N	+:H	For years she had not been able to weep, but had only bitten her lips till the blood started.
55:55	N:N	N:N	It is the time of falling leaves and of stranded ships, and soon will icy winter come.
56:56	N:N	N:N	The sea rolled wine-tubs to the shore for the bishop's cellar.
57:57	N:N	N:N	In the kitchen the deer roasted on the spit before the fire.
58:58	N:N	N:N	At Borglum it was warm and cheerful in the heated rooms, while cold winter raged without, when a piece of news was brought to the bishop.
59:59	N:N	N:N	"Jens Glob, of Thyland, has come back, and his mother with him."
60:60	N:N	N:N	Jens Glob laid a complaint against the bishop, and summoned him before the temporal and the spiritual court.
61:61	D:N	D:N	"That will avail him little," said the bishop.
62:62	N:N	D:-	"Best leave off thy efforts, knight Jens."
63:63	N:N	N:N	Again it is the time of falling leaves and stranded ships.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Icy winter comes again, and the "white bees" are swarming, and sting the traveller's face till they melt.
65:65	N:N	N:N	"Keen weather to-day!" say the people, as they step in.
66:66	N:N	N:N	Jens Glob stands so deeply wrapped in thought, that he singes the skirt of his wide garment.
67:67	A:N	A:N	"Thou Borglum bishop," he exclaims, "I shall subdue thee after all!
68:68	A:N	A:A	Under the shield of the Pope, the law cannot reach thee; but Jens Glob shall reach thee!"
69:69	N:N	N:N	Then he writes a letter to his brother-in-law, Olaf Hase, in Sallingland, and prays that knight to meet him on Christmas eve, at mass, in the church at Widberg.
70:70	N:N	N:N	The bishop himself is to read the mass, and consequently will journey from Borglum to Thyland; and this is known to Jens Glob.
71:71	N:N	N:N	Moorland and meadow are covered with ice and snow.
72:72	N:N	N:N	The marsh will bear horse and rider, the bishop with his priests and armed men.
73:73	N:N	N:N	They ride the shortest way, through the waving reeds, where the wind moans sadly.
74:74	N:N	N:N	Blow thy brazen trumpet, thou trumpeter clad in fox-skin! it sounds merrily in the clear air.
75:75	N:N	N:N	So they ride on over heath and moorland- over what is the garden of Fata Morgana in the hot summer, though now icy, like all the country- towards the church of Widberg.
76:76	N:N	N:N	The wind is blowing his trumpet too- blowing it harder and harder.
77:77	N:N	N:N	He blows up a storm- a terrible storm- that increases more and more.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Towards the church they ride, as fast as they may through the storm.
79:79	N:N	N:F	The church stands firm, but the storm careers on over field and moorland, over land and sea.
80:80	N:N	N:F	Borglum's bishop reaches the church; but Olaf Hase will scarce do so, however hard he may ride.
81:81	N:N	N:F	He journeys with his warriors on the farther side of the bay, in order that he may help Jens Glob, now that the bishop is to be summoned before the judgment seat of the Highest.
82:82	N:N	N:F	The church is the judgment hall; the altar is the council table.
83:83	N:N	N:N	The lights burn clear in the heavy brass candelabra.
84:84	N:N	N:N	The storm reads out the accusation and the sentence, roaming in the air over moor and heath, and over the rolling waters.
85:85	N:N	N:N	No ferry-boat can sail over the bay in such weather as this.
86:86	N:N	N:N	Olaf Hase makes halt at Ottesworde.
87:87	N:N	N:N	There he dismisses his warriors, presents them with their horses and harness, and gives them leave to ride home and greet his wife.
88:88	N:N	N:N	He intends to risk his life alone in the roaring waters; but they are to bear witness for him that it is not his fault if Jens Glob stands without reinforcement in the church at Widberg.
89:89	N:N	N:N	The faithful warriors will not leave him, but follow him out into the deep waters.
90:90	N:N	N:N	Ten of them are carried away; but Olaf Hase and two of the youngest men reach the farther side.
91:91	N:N	N:N	They have still four miles to ride.
92:92	N:N	N:N	It is past midnight.
93:93	N:N	N:N	It is Christmas.
94:94	N:N	N:N	The wind has abated.
95:95	N:N	N:N	The church is lighted up; the gleaming radiance shines through the window-frames, and pours out over meadow and heath.
96:96	N:N	N:F	The mass has long been finished, silence reigns in the church, and the wax is heard dropping from the candles to the stone pavement.
97:97	N:N	N:F	And now Olaf Hase arrives.
98:98	N:N	N:+	In the forecourt Jens Glob greets him kindly, and says, "I have just made an agreement with the bishop."
99:99	N:Su-	N:-	"Sayest thou so?" replied Olaf Hase.
100:100	N:N	N:A	"Then neither thou nor the bishop shall quit this church alive."
101:101	N:N	-:-	And the sword leaps from the scabbard, and Olaf Hase deals a blow that makes the panel of the church door, which Jens Glob hastily closes between them, fly in fragments.
102:102	Su-:N	-:-	"Hold, brother!
103:103	N:N	N:-	First hear what the agreement was that I made.
104:104	N:N	-:-	I have slain the bishop and his warriors and priests.
105:105	H:N	H:-	They will have no word more to say in the matter, nor will I speak again of all the wrong that my mother has endured."
106:106	N:N	-:-	The long wicks of the altar lights glimmer red; but there is a redder gleam upon the pavement, where the bishop lies with cloven skull, and his dead warriors around him, in the quiet of the holy Christmas night.
107:107	N:N	N:-	And four days afterwards the bells toll for a funeral in the convent of Borglum.
108:108	N:N	-:-	The murdered bishop and the slain warriors and priests are displayed under a black canopy, surrounded by candelabra decked with crape.
109:109	N:N	-:-	There lies the dead man, in the black cloak wrought with silver; the crozier in the powerless hand that was once so mighty.
110:110	N:N	N:N	The incense rises in clouds, and the monks chant the funeral hymn.
111:111	N:N	N:-	It sounds like a wail- it sounds like a sentence of wrath and condemnation, that must be heard far over the land, carried by the wind- sung by the wind- the wail that sometimes is silent, but never dies; for ever again it rises in song, singing even into our own time this legend of the Bishop of Borglum and his hard nephew.
112:112	N:N	N:F	It is heard in the dark night by the frightened husbandman, driving by in the heavy sandy road past the convent of Borglum.
113:113	N:N	N:F	It is heard by the sleepless listener in the thickly-walled rooms at Borglum.
114:114	N:N	N:F	And not only to the ear of superstition is the sighing and the tread of hurrying feet audible in the long echoing passages leading to the convent door that has long been locked.
115:115	N:N	N:F	The door still seems to open, and the lights seem to flame in the brazen candlesticks; the fragrance of incense arises; the church gleams in its ancient splendor; and the monks sing and say the mass over the slain bishop, who lies there in the black silver-embroidered mantle, with the crozier in his powerless hand; and on his pale proud forehead gleams the red wound like fire, and there burn the worldly mind and the wicked thoughts.
116:116	N:N	A:F	Sink down into his grave- into oblivion- ye terrible shapes of the times of old!
117:117	N:N	A:F	Hark to the raging of the angry wind, sounding above the rolling sea!
118:118	N:N	N:N	A storm approaches without, calling aloud for human lives.
119:119	N:N	N:N	The sea has not put on a new mind with the new time.
120:120	N:N	N:N	This night it is a horrible pit to devour up lives, and to-morrow, perhaps, it may be a glassy mirror- even as in the old time that we have buried.
121:121	N:N	N:F	Sleep sweetly, if thou canst sleep!
122:122	N:N	N:N	Now it is morning.
123:123	N:N	N:N	The new time flings sunshine into the room.
124:124	N:N	N:N	The wind still keeps up mightily.
125:125	N:N	N:N	A wreck is announced- as in the old time.
126:126	N:N	N:N	During the night, down yonder by Lokken, the little fishing village with the red-tiled roofs- we can see it up here from the window- a ship has come ashore.
127:127	N:N	N:N	It has struck, and is fast embedded in the sand; but the rocket apparatus has thrown a rope on board, and formed a bridge from the wreck to the mainland; and all on board are saved, and reach the land, and are wrapped in warm blankets; and to-day they are invited to the farm at the convent of Borglum.
128:128	N:N	H:H	In comfortable rooms they encounter hospitality and friendly faces.
129:129	N:N	H:H	They are addressed in the language of their country, and the piano sounds for them with melodies of their native land; and before these have died away, the chord has been struck, the wire of thought that reaches to the land of the sufferers announces that they are rescued.
130:130	H:N	H:H	Then their anxieties are dispelled; and at even they join in the dance at the feast given in the great hall at Borglum.
131:131	N:N	H:H	Waltzes and Styrian dances are given, and Danish popular songs, and melodies of foreign lands in these modern times.
132:132	N:N	H:H	Blessed be thou, new time!
133:133	N:N	H:H	Speak thou of summer and of purer gales!
134:134	N:N	H:H	Send thy sunbeams gleaming into our hearts and thoughts!
135:135	N:N	H:H	On thy glowing canvas let them be painted- the dark legends of the rough hard times that are past!
0:0	N:N	N:N	CLOSE to the corner of a street, among other abodes of poverty, stood an exceedingly tall, narrow house, which had been so knocked about by time that it seemed out of joint in every direction.
1:1	N:N	N:N	This house was inhabited by poor people, but the deepest poverty was apparent in the garret lodging in the gable.
2:2	N:N	N:N	In front of the little window, an old bent bird-cage hung in the sunshine, which had not even a proper water-glass, but instead of it the broken neck of a bottle, turned upside down, and a cork stuck in to make it hold the water with which it was filled.
3:3	H:N	H:N	An old maid stood at the window; she had hung chickweed over the cage, and the little linnet which it contained hopped from perch to perch and sang and twittered merrily.
4:4	H:N	N:N	"Yes, it's all very well for you to sing," said the bottle neck: that is, he did not really speak the words as we do, for the neck of a bottle cannot speak; but he thought them to himself in his own mind, just as people sometimes talk quietly to themselves.
5:5	D:N	D:S	"Yes, you may sing very well, you have all your limbs uninjured; you should feel what it is like to lose your body, and only have a neck and a mouth left, with a cork stuck in it, as I have: you wouldn't sing then, I know.
6:6	N:N	N:S	After all, it is just as well that there are some who can be happy.
7:7	Sa:N	S:S	I have no reason to sing, nor could I sing now if I were ever so happy; but when I was a whole bottle, and they rubbed me with a cork, didn't I sing then?
8:8	N:N	N:S	I used to be called a complete lark.
9:9	N:N	N:S	I remember when I went out to a picnic with the furrier's family, on the day his daughter was betrothed,- it seems as if it only happened yesterday.
10:10	N:N	N:S	I have gone through a great deal in my time, when I come to recollect: I have been in the fire and in the water, I have been deep in the earth, and have mounted higher in the air than most other people, and now I am swinging here, outside a bird-cage, in the air and the sunshine.
11:11	N:N	N:S	Oh, indeed, it would be worth while to hear my history; but I do not speak it aloud, for a good reason- because I cannot."
12:12	N:N	N:S	Then the bottle neck related his history, which was really rather remarkable; he, in fact, related it to himself, or, at least, thought it in his own mind.
13:13	H:H	N:N	The little bird sang his own song merrily; in the street below there was driving and running to and fro, every one thought of his own affairs, or perhaps of nothing at all; but the bottle neck thought deeply.
14:14	N:N	N:N	He thought of the blazing furnace in the factory, where he had been blown into life; he remembered how hot it felt when he was placed in the heated oven, the home from which he sprang, and that he had a strong inclination to leap out again directly; but after a while it became cooler, and he found himself very comfortable.
15:15	N:N	N:N	He had been placed in a row, with a whole regiment of his brothers and sisters all brought out of the same furnace; some of them had certainly been blown into champagne bottles, and others into beer bottles, which made a little difference between them.
16:16	N:N	N:N	In the world it often happens that a beer bottle may contain the most precious wine, and a champagne bottle be filled with blacking, but even in decay it may always be seen whether a man has been well born.
17:17	N:N	N:N	Nobility remains noble, as a champagne bottle remains the same, even with blacking in its interior.
18:18	N:N	N:N	When the bottles were packed our bottle was packed amongst them; it little expected then to finish its career as a bottle neck, or to be used as a water-glass to a bird's-cage, which is, after all, a place of honor, for it is to be of some use in the world.
19:19	Su+:N	N:N	The bottle did not behold the light of day again, until it was unpacked with the rest in the wine merchant's cellar, and, for the first time, rinsed with water, which caused some very curious sensations.
20:20	N:N	N:N	There it lay empty, and without a cork, and it had a peculiar feeling, as if it wanted something it knew not what.
21:21	N:N	N:N	At last it was filled with rich and costly wine, a cork was placed in it, and sealed down.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Then it was labelled "first quality," as if it had carried off the first prize at an examination; besides, the wine and the bottle were both good, and while we are young is the time for poetry.
23:23	N:N	N:H	There were sounds of song within the bottle, of things it could not understand, of green sunny mountains, where the vines grow and where the merry vine-dressers laugh, sing, and are merry.
24:24	H:N	H:H	"Ah, how beautiful is life."
25:25	N:H	H:H	All these tones of joy and song in the bottle were like the working of a young poet's brain, who often knows not the meaning of the tones which are sounding within him.
26:26	N:N	N:N	One morning the bottle found a purchaser in the furrier's apprentice, who was told to bring one of the best bottles of wine.
27:27	N:N	N:N	It was placed in the provision basket with ham and cheese and sausages.
28:28	N:N	N:N	The sweetest fresh butter and the finest bread were put into the basket by the furrier's daughter herself, for she packed it.
29:29	H:N	H:H	She was young and pretty; her brown eyes laughed, and a smile lingered round her mouth as sweet as that in her eyes.
30:30	N:N	H:N	She had delicate hands, beautifully white, and her neck was whiter still.
31:31	N:N	N:N	It could easily be seen that she was a very lovely girl, and as yet she was not engaged.
32:32	N:N	N:N	The provision basket lay in the lap of the young girl as the family drove out to the forest, and the neck of the bottle peeped out from between the folds of the white napkin.
33:33	N:N	N:N	There was the red wax on the cork, and the bottle looked straight at the young girl's face, and also at the face of the young sailor who sat near her.
34:34	N:N	N:N	He was a young friend, the son of a portrait painter.
35:35	N:N	N:N	He had lately passed his examination with honor, as mate, and the next morning he was to sail in his ship to a distant coast.
36:36	Sa:Sa	N:S	There had been a great deal of talk on this subject while the basket was being packed, and during this conversation the eyes and the mouth of the furrier's daughter did not wear a very joyful expression.
37:37	N:N	N:N	The young people wandered away into the green wood, and talked together.
38:38	N:N	N:N	What did they talk about?
39:39	N:N	N:N	The bottle could not say, for he was in the provision basket.
40:40	N:H	H:H	It remained there a long time; but when at last it was brought forth it appeared as if something pleasant had happened, for every one was laughing; the furrier's daughter laughed too, but she said very little, and her cheeks were like two roses.
41:41	N:N	N:H	Then her father took the bottle and the cork-screw into his hands.
42:42	Su+:N	+:H	What a strange sensation it was to have the cork drawn for the first time!
43:43	N:N	+:H	The bottle could never after that forget the performance of that moment; indeed there was quite a convulsion within him as the cork flew out, and a gurgling sound as the wine was poured forth into the glasses.
44:44	H:N	H:H	"Long life to the betrothed," cried the papa, and every glass was emptied to the dregs, while the young sailor kissed his beautiful bride.
45:45	H:N	S:H	"Happiness and blessing to you both," said the old people-father and mother, and the young man filled the glasses again.
46:46	H:H	H:H	"Safe return, and a wedding this day next year," he cried; and when the glasses were empty he took the bottle, raised it on high, and said, "Thou hast been present here on the happiest day of my life; thou shalt never be used by others!"
47:47	N:N	H:H	So saying, he hurled it high in the air.
48:48	N:N	N:N	The furrier's daughter thought she should never see it again, but she was mistaken.
49:49	N:N	N:N	It fell among the rushes on the borders of a little woodland lake.
50:50	N:N	N:N	The bottle neck remembered well how long it lay there unseen.
51:51	D:N	D:N	"I gave them wine, and they gave me muddy water," he had said to himself, "but I suppose it was all well meant."
52:52	H:H	N:H	He could no longer see the betrothed couple, nor the cheerful old people; but for a long time he could hear them rejoicing and singing.
53:53	N:N	N:N	At length there came by two peasant boys, who peeped in among the reeds and spied out the bottle.
54:54	N:N	N:N	Then they took it up and carried it home with them, so that once more it was provided for.
55:55	N:N	N:N	At home in their wooden cottage these boys had an elder brother, a sailor, who was about to start on a long voyage.
56:56	N:N	N:N	He had been there the day before to say farewell, and his mother was now very busy packing up various things for him to take with him on his voyage.
57:57	N:N	N:N	In the evening his father was going to carry the parcel to the town to see his son once more, and take him a farewell greeting from his mother.
58:58	N:N	N:N	A small bottle had already been filled with herb tea, mixed with brandy, and wrapped in a parcel; but when the boys came in they brought with them a larger and stronger bottle, which they had found.
59:59	N:N	N:N	This bottle would hold so much more than the little one, and they all said the brandy would be so good for complaints of the stomach, especially as it was mixed with medical herbs.
60:60	N:N	N:N	The liquid which they now poured into the bottle was not like the red wine with which it had once been filled; these were bitter drops, but they are of great use sometimes-for the stomach.
61:61	N:N	N:N	The new large bottle was to go, not the little one: so the bottle once more started on its travels.
62:62	N:N	N:N	It was taken on board (for Peter Jensen was one of the crew) the very same ship in which the young mate was to sail.
63:63	N:N	N:N	But the mate did not see the bottle: indeed, if he had he would not have known it, or supposed it was the one out of which they had drunk to the felicity of the betrothed and to the prospect of a marriage on his own happy return.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Certainly the bottle no longer poured forth wine, but it contained something quite as good; and so it happened that whenever Peter Jensen brought it out, his messmates gave it the name of "the apothecary," for it contained the best medicine to cure the stomach, and he gave it out quite willingly as long as a drop remained.
65:65	H:H	H:H	Those were happy days, and the bottle would sing when rubbed with a cork, and it was called a great lark," "Peter Jensen's lark."
66:66	N:N	N:-	Long days and months rolled by, during which the bottle stood empty in a corner, when a storm arose- whether on the passage out or home it could not tell, for it had never been ashore.
67:67	N:N	N:F	It was a terrible storm, great waves arose, darkly heaving and tossing the vessel to and fro.
68:68	N:N	-:F	The main mast was split asunder, the ship sprang a leak, and the pumps became useless, while all around was black as night.
69:69	Sa:N	-:S	At the last moment, when the ship was sinking, the young mate wrote on a piece of paper, "We are going down: God's will be done."
70:70	N:N	-:N	Then he wrote the name of his betrothed, his own name, and that of the ship.
71:71	N:N	N:S	Then he put the leaf in an empty bottle that happened to be at hand, corked it down tightly, and threw it into the foaming sea.
72:72	N:N	N:S	He knew not that it was the very same bottle from which the goblet of joy and hope had once been filled for him, and now it was tossing on the waves with his last greeting, and a message from the dead.
73:73	N:N	N:S	The ship sank, and the crew sank with her; but the bottle flew on like a bird, for it bore within it a loving letter from a loving heart.
74:74	N:N	N:N	And as the sun rose and set, the bottle felt as at the time of its first existence, when in the heated glowing stove it had a longing to fly away.
75:75	N:N	N:N	It outlived the storms and the calm, it struck against no rocks, was not devoured by sharks, but drifted on for more than a year, sometimes towards the north, sometimes towards the south, just as the current carried it.
76:76	N:N	N:N	It was in all other ways its own master, but even of that one may get tired.
77:77	N:N	N:N	The written leaf, the last farewell of the bridegroom to his bride, would only bring sorrow when once it reached her hands; but where were those hands, so soft and delicate, which had once spread the table-cloth on the fresh grass in the green wood, on the day of her betrothal?
78:78	N:N	N:N	Ah, yes! where was the furrier's daughter? and where was the land which might lie nearest to her home?
79:79	N:N	N:N	The bottle knew not, it travelled onward and onward, and at last all this wandering about became wearisome; at all events it was not its usual occupation.
80:80	N:N	N:N	But it had to travel, till at length it reached land- a foreign country.
81:81	N:N	N:N	Not a word spoken in this country could the bottle understand; it was a language it had never before heard, and it is a great loss not to be able to understand a language.
82:82	N:N	N:N	The bottle was fished out of the water, and examined on all sides.
83:83	N:N	N:N	The little letter contained within it was discovered, taken out, and turned and twisted in every direction; but the people could not understand what was written upon it.
84:84	N:N	N:N	They could be quite sure that the bottle had been thrown overboard from a vessel, and that something about it was written on this paper: but what was written? that was the question,- so the paper was put back into the bottle, and then both were put away in a large cupboard of one of the great houses of the town.
85:85	N:N	N:N	Whenever any strangers arrived, the paper was taken out and turned over and over, so that the address, which was only written in pencil, became almost illegible, and at last no one could distinguish any letters on it at all.
86:86	N:N	N:N	For a whole year the bottle remained standing in the cupboard, and then it was taken up to the loft, where it soon became covered with dust and cobwebs.
87:87	N:N	N:S	Ah! how often then it thought of those better days- of the times when in the fresh, green wood, it had poured forth rich wine; or, while rocked by the swelling waves, it had carried in its bosom a secret, a letter, a last parting sigh.
88:88	N:N	N:N	For full twenty years it stood in the loft, and it might have stayed there longer but that the house was going to be rebuilt.
89:89	N:N	N:N	The bottle was discovered when the roof was taken off; they talked about it, but the bottle did not understand what they said- a language is not to be learnt by living in a loft, even for twenty years.
90:90	N:N	N:N	"If I had been down stairs in the room," thought the bottle, "I might have learnt it."
91:91	N:N	N:N	It was now washed and rinsed, which process was really quite necessary, and afterwards it looked clean and transparent, and felt young again in its old age; but the paper which it had carried so faithfully was destroyed in the washing.
92:92	N:N	N:N	They filled the bottle with seeds, though it scarcely knew what had been placed in it.
93:93	N:N	N:N	Then they corked it down tightly, and carefully wrapped it up.
94:94	N:N	N:N	There not even the light of a torch or lantern could reach it, much less the brightness of the sun or moon.
95:95	N:N	N:N	"And yet," thought the bottle, "men go on a journey that they may see as much as possible, and I can see nothing."
96:96	N:N	N:N	However, it did something quite as important; it travelled to the place of its destination, and was unpacked.
97:97	Su+:N	+:N	"What trouble they have taken with that bottle over yonder!" said one, and very likely it is broken after all."
98:98	Su+:N	+:N	But the bottle was not broken, and, better still, it understood every word that was said: this language it had heard at the furnaces and at the wine merchant's; in the forest and on the ship,- it was the only good old language it could understand.
99:99	H:N	H:H	It had returned home, and the language was as a welcome greeting.
100:100	H:H	H:H	For very joy, it felt ready to jump out of people's hands, and scarcely noticed that its cork had been drawn, and its contents emptied out, till it found itself carried to a cellar, to be left there and forgotten.
101:101	H:H	H:H	"There's no place like home, even if it's a cellar."
102:102	H:N	H:H	It never occurred to him to think that he might lie there for years, he felt so comfortable.
103:103	N:N	N:N	For many long years he remained in the cellar, till at last some people came to carry away the bottles, and ours amongst the number.
104:104	N:N	N:N	Out in the garden there was a great festival.
105:105	N:N	N:N	Brilliant lamps hung in festoons from tree to tree; and paper lanterns, through which the light shone till they looked like transparent tulips.
106:106	N:N	N:N	It was a beautiful evening, and the weather mild and clear.
107:107	H:N	H:N	The stars twinkled; and the new moon, in the form of a crescent, was surrounded by the shadowy disc of the whole moon, and looked like a gray globe with a golden rim: it was a beautiful sight for those who had good eyes.
108:108	N:N	H:N	The illumination extended even to the most retired of the garden walks, at least not so retired that any one need lose himself there.
109:109	N:N	N:N	In the borders were placed bottles, each containing a light, and among them the bottle with which we are acquainted, and whose fate it was, one day, to be only a bottle neck, and to serve as a water-glass to a bird's-cage.
110:110	H:N	H:H	Everything here appeared lovely to our bottle, for it was again in the green wood, amid joy and feasting; again it heard music and song, and the noise and murmur of a crowd, especially in that part of the garden where the lamps blazed, and the paper lanterns displayed their brilliant colors.
111:111	H:N	H:H	It stood in a distant walk certainly, but a place pleasant for contemplation; and it carried a light; and was at once useful and ornamental.
112:112	N:N	H:N	In such an hour it is easy to forget that one has spent twenty years in a loft, and a good thing it is to be able to do so.
113:113	N:N	H:N	Close before the bottle passed a single pair, like the bridal pair- the mate and the furrier's daughter- who had so long ago wandered in the wood.
114:114	H:N	H:H	It seemed to the bottle as if he were living that time over again.
115:115	H:N	H:H	Not only the guests but other people were walking in the garden, who were allowed to witness the splendor and the festivities.
116:116	N:N	N:N	Among the latter came an old maid, who seemed to be quite alone in the world.
117:117	H:N	H:N	She was thinking, like the bottle, of the green wood, and of a young betrothed pair, who were closely connected with herself; she was thinking of that hour, the happiest of her life, in which she had taken part, when she had herself been one of that betrothed pair; such hours are never to be forgotten, let a maiden be as old as she may.
118:118	N:N	N:N	But she did not recognize the bottle, neither did the bottle notice the old maid.
119:119	N:N	N:N	And so we often pass each other in the world when we meet, as did these two, even while together in the same town.
120:120	N:N	N:N	The bottle was taken from the garden, and again sent to a wine merchant, where it was once more filled with wine, and sold to an aeronaut, who was to make an ascent in his balloon on the following Sunday.
121:121	N:N	N:N	A great crowd assembled to witness the sight; military music had been engaged, and many other preparations made.
122:122	N:N	N:N	The bottle saw it all from the basket in which he lay close to a live rabbit.
123:123	H:H	H:H	The rabbit was quite excited because he knew that he was to be taken up, and let down again in a parachute.
124:124	N:N	N:N	The bottle, however, knew nothing of the "up," or the "down;" he saw only that the balloon was swelling larger and larger till it could swell no more, and began to rise and be restless.
125:125	H:N	H:H	Then the ropes which held it were cut through, and the aerial ship rose in the air with the aeronaut and the basket containing the bottle and the rabbit, while the music sounded and all the people shouted "Hurrah."
126:126	H:N	H:H	"This is a wonderful journey up into the air," thought the bottle; "it is a new way of sailing, and here, at least, there is no fear of striking against anything."
127:127	N:N	N:N	Thousands of people gazed at the balloon, and the old maid who was in the garden saw it also; for she stood at the open window of the garret, by which hung the cage containing the linnet, who then had no water-glass, but was obliged to be contented with an old cup.
128:128	N:N	N:N	In the window-sill stood a myrtle in a pot, and this had been pushed a little on one side, that it might not fall out; for the old maid was leaning out of the window, that she might see.
129:129	N:N	N:N	And she did see distinctly the aeronaut in the balloon, and how he let down the rabbit in the parachute, and then drank to the health of all the spectators in the wine from the bottle.
130:130	N:N	N:-	After doing this, he hurled it high into the air.
131:131	N:N	N:-	How little she thought that this was the very same bottle which her friend had thrown aloft in her honor, on that happy day of rejoicing, in the green wood, in her youthful days.
132:132	N:N	N:-	The bottle had no time to think, when raised so suddenly; and before it was aware, it reached the highest point it had ever attained in its life.
133:133	N:N	+:-	Steeples and roofs lay far, far beneath it, and the people looked as tiny as possible.
134:134	Su+:N	+:-	Then it began to descend much more rapidly than the rabbit had done, made somersaults in the air, and felt itself quite young and unfettered, although it was half full of wine.
135:135	N:N	N:-	But this did not last long.
136:136	N:N	+:-	What a journey it was!
137:137	N:N	N:-	All the people could see the bottle; for the sun shone upon it.
138:138	N:N	N:-	The balloon was already far away, and very soon the bottle was far away also; for it fell upon a roof, and broke in pieces.
139:139	N:N	N:-	But the pieces had got such an impetus in them, that they could not stop themselves.
140:140	N:N	N:-	They went jumping and rolling about, till at last they fell into the court-yard, and were broken into still smaller pieces; only the neck of the bottle managed to keep whole, and it was broken off as clean as if it had been cut with a diamond.
141:141	N:N	N:-	"That would make a capital bird's glass," said one of the cellar-men; but none of them had either a bird or a cage, and it was not to be expected they would provide one just because they had found a bottle neck that could be used as a glass.
142:142	N:N	N:N	But the old maid who lived in the garret had a bird, and it really might be useful to her; so the bottle neck was provided with a cork, and taken up to her; and, as it often happens in life, the part that had been uppermost was now turned downwards, and it was filled with fresh water.
143:143	H:H	H:H	Then they hung it in the cage of the little bird, who sang and twittered more merrily than ever.
144:144	N:N	N:N	"Ah, you have good reason to sing," said the bottle neck, which was looked upon as something very remarkable, because it had been in a balloon; nothing further was known of its history.
145:145	N:N	N:N	As it hung there in the bird's-cage, it could hear the noise and murmur of the people in the street below, as well as the conversation of the old maid in the room within.
146:146	N:N	N:N	An old friend had just come to visit her, and they talked, not about the bottle neck, but of the myrtle in the window.
147:147	N:N	N:N	"No, you must not spend a dollar for your daughter's bridal bouquet," said the old maid; "you shall have a beautiful little bunch for a nosegay, full of blossoms.
148:148	H:N	N:N	Do you see how splendidly the tree has grown?
149:149	Sa:N	N:S	It has been raised from only a little sprig of myrtle that you gave me on the day after my betrothal, and from which I was to make my own bridal bouquet when a year had passed: but that day never came; the eyes were closed which were to have been my light and joy through life.
150:150	N:N	N:S	In the depths of the sea my beloved sleeps sweetly; the myrtle has become an old tree, and I am a still older woman.
151:151	H:N	H:N	Before the sprig you gave me faded, I took a spray, and planted it in the earth; and now, as you see, it has become a large tree, and a bunch of the blossoms shall at last appear at a wedding festival, in the bouquet of your daughter."
152:152	H:Sa	H:S	There were tears in the eyes of the old maid, as she spoke of the beloved of her youth, and of their betrothal in the wood.
153:153	N:N	H:N	Many thoughts came into her mind; but the thought never came, that quite close to her, in that very window, was a remembrance of those olden times,- the neck of the bottle which had, as it were shouted for joy when the cork flew out with a bang on the betrothal day.
154:154	N:N	N:N	But the bottle neck did not recognize the old maid; he had not been listening to what she had related, perhaps because he was thinking so much about her.
0:0	N:N	N:N	VERY often, after a violent thunder-storm, a field of buckwheat appears blackened and singed, as if a flame of fire had passed over it.
1:1	F:N	F:N	The country people say that this appearance is caused by lightning; but I will tell you what the sparrow says, and the sparrow heard it from an old willow-tree which grew near a field of buckwheat, and is there still.
2:2	N:N	F:N	It is a large venerable tree, though a little crippled by age.
3:3	N:N	S:N	The trunk has been split, and out of the crevice grass and brambles grow.
4:4	N:N	S:N	The tree bends for-ward slightly, and the branches hang quite down to the ground just like green hair.
5:5	H:N	H:N	Corn grows in the surrounding fields, not only rye and barley, but oats,-pretty oats that, when ripe, look like a number of little golden canary-birds sitting on a bough.
6:6	H:H	H:N	The corn has a smiling look and the heaviest and richest ears bend their heads low as if in pious humility.
7:7	N:N	H:N	Once there was also a field of buckwheat, and this field was exactly opposite to old willow-tree.
8:8	H:N	H:N	The buckwheat did not bend like the other grain, but erected its head proudly and stiffly on the stem.
9:9	H:N	H:N	"I am as valuable as any other corn," said he, "and I am much handsomer; my flowers are as beautiful as the bloom of the apple blossom, and it is a pleasure to look at us.
10:10	H:N	H:N	Do you know of anything prettier than we are, you old willow-tree?"
11:11	Su+:N	H:N	And the willow-tree nodded his head, as if he would say, "Indeed I do."
12:12	A:A	A:A	But the buckwheat spread itself out with pride, and said, "Stupid tree; he is so old that grass grows out of his body."
13:13	F:N	F:F	There arose a very terrible storm.
14:14	F:N	F:F	All the field-flowers folded their leaves together, or bowed their little heads, while the storm passed over them, but the buckwheat stood erect in its pride.
15:15	F:N	F:F	"Bend your head as we do," said the flowers.
16:16	A:N	F:F	"I have no occasion to do so," replied the buckwheat.
17:17	F:F	F:F	"Bend your head as we do," cried the ears of corn; "the angel of the storm is coming; his wings spread from the sky above to the earth beneath.
18:18	F:F	F:F	He will strike you down before you can cry for mercy."
19:19	A:N	F:F	"But I will not bend my head," said the buckwheat.
20:20	F:N	F:F	"Close your flowers and bend your leaves," said the old willow-tree.
21:21	F:N	F:F	"Do not look at the lightning when the cloud bursts; even men cannot do that.
22:22	F:N	F:F	In a flash of lightning heaven opens, and we can look in; but the sight will strike even human beings blind.
23:23	F:N	F:F	What then must happen to us, who only grow out of the earth, and are so inferior to them, if we venture to do so?"
24:24	A:A	F:A	"Inferior, indeed!" said the buckwheat.
25:25	A:N	F:A	"Now I intend to have a peep into heaven."
26:26	H:N	F:F	Proudly and boldly he looked up, while the lightning flashed across the sky as if the whole world were in flames.
27:27	Sa:N	S:F	When the dreadful storm had passed, the flowers and the corn raised their drooping heads in the pure still air, refreshed by the rain, but the buckwheat lay like a weed in the field, burnt to blackness by the lightning.
28:28	Sa:Sa	S:S	The branches of the old willow-tree rustled in the wind, and large water-drops fell from his green leaves as if the old willow were weeping.
29:29	Su-:N	S:S	Then the sparrows asked why he was weeping, when all around him seemed so cheerful.
30:30	H:N	S:N	"See," they said, how the sun shines, and the clouds float in the blue sky.
31:31	Su-:N	S:N	Do you not smell the sweet perfume from flower and bush?
32:32	Su-:N	S:N	Wherefore do you weep, old willow-tree?"
33:33	Sa:N	S:S	Then the willow told them of the haughty pride of the buckwheat, and of the punishment which followed in consequence.
34:34	N:N	S:N	This is the story told me by the sparrows one evening when I begged them to relate some tale to me.
0:0	N:H	N:H	THERE was once a butterfly who wished for a bride, and, as may be supposed, he wanted to choose a very pretty one from among the flowers.
1:1	D:Sa	D:S	He glanced, with a very critical eye, at all the flower-beds, and found that the flowers were seated quietly and demurely on their stalks, just as maidens should sit before they are engaged; but there was a great number of them, and it appeared as if his search would become very wearisome.
2:2	N:N	N:N	The butterfly did not like to take too much trouble, so he flew off on a visit to the daisies.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The French call this flower "Marguerite," and they say that the little daisy can prophesy.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Lovers pluck off the leaves, and as they pluck each leaf, they ask a question about their lovers; thus: "Does he or she love me?- Ardently?
5:5	N:N	N:N	Distractedly?
6:6	N:N	N:N	Very much?
7:7	N:N	N:N	A little?
8:8	N:N	N:N	Not at all?" and so on.
9:9	N:N	N:N	Every one speaks these words in his own language.
10:10	H:N	H:N	The butterfly came also to Marguerite to inquire, but he did not pluck off her leaves; he pressed a kiss on each of them, for he thought there was always more to be done by kindness.
11:11	N:N	H:N	"Darling Marguerite daisy," he said to her, "you are the wisest woman of all the flowers.
12:12	N:N	H:N	Pray tell me which of the flowers I shall choose for my wife.
13:13	N:N	N:N	Which will be my bride?
14:14	N:N	N:N	When I know, I will fly directly to her, and propose."
15:15	A:A	A:A	But Marguerite did not answer him; she was offended that he should call her a woman when she was only a girl; and there is a great difference.
16:16	N:N	A:A	He asked her a second time, and then a third; but she remained dumb, and answered not a word.
17:17	D:N	D:N	Then he would wait no longer, but flew away, to commence his wooing at once.
18:18	N:N	N:N	It was in the early spring, when the crocus and the snowdrop were in full bloom.
19:19	N:H	N:H	"They are very pretty," thought the butterfly; "charming little lasses; but they are rather formal."
20:20	N:N	N:N	Then, as the young lads often do, he looked out for the elder girls.
21:21	N:D	N:D	He next flew to the anemones; these were rather sour to his taste.
22:22	N:Sa	N:S	The violet, a little too sentimental.
23:23	N:N	N:N	The lime-blossoms, too small, and besides, there was such a large family of them.
24:24	N:N	N:N	The apple-blossoms, though they looked like roses, bloomed to-day, but might fall off to-morrow, with the first wind that blew; and he thought that a marriage with one of them might last too short a time.
25:25	H:H	H:H	The pea-blossom pleased him most of all; she was white and red, graceful and slender, and belonged to those domestic maidens who have a pretty appearance, and can yet be useful in the kitchen.
26:26	Su-:N	-:N	He was just about to make her an offer, when, close by the maiden, he saw a pod, with a withered flower hanging at the end.
27:27	N:N	-:N	"Who is that?" he asked.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"That is my sister," replied the pea-blossom.
29:29	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Oh, indeed; and you will be like her some day," said he; and he flew away directly, for he felt quite shocked.
30:30	N:N	N:N	A honeysuckle hung forth from the hedge, in full bloom; but there were so many girls like her, with long faces and sallow complexions.
31:31	N:D	N:D	No; he did not like her.
32:32	N:N	N:N	But which one did he like?
33:33	N:N	N:N	Spring went by, and summer drew towards its close; autumn came; but he had not decided.
34:34	N:N	N:N	The flowers now appeared in their most gorgeous robes, but all in vain; they had not the fresh, fragrant air of youth.
35:35	N:N	N:N	For the heart asks for fragrance, even when it is no longer young; and there is very little of that to be found in the dahlias or the dry chrysanthemums; therefore the butterfly turned to the mint on the ground.
36:36	H:N	H:N	You know, this plant has no blossom; but it is sweetness all over,- full of fragrance from head to foot, with the scent of a flower in every leaf.
37:37	H:H	H:H	"I will take her," said the butterfly; and he made her an offer.
38:38	N:N	N:N	But the mint stood silent and stiff, as she listened to him.
39:39	N:N	N:S	At last she said,- "Friendship, if you please; nothing more.
40:40	D:D	N:D	I am old, and you are old, but we may live for each other just the same; as to marrying- no; don't let us appear ridiculous at our age."
41:41	N:N	N:S	And so it happened that the butterfly got no wife at all.
42:42	N:N	N:S	He had been too long choosing, which is always a bad plan.
43:43	N:N	N:S	And the butterfly became what is called an old bachelor.
44:44	N:N	N:S	It was late in the autumn, with rainy and cloudy weather.
45:45	N:N	N:S	The cold wind blew over the bowed backs of the willows, so that they creaked again.
46:46	N:N	N:N	It was not the weather for flying about in summer clothes; but fortunately the butterfly was not out in it.
47:47	N:N	N:N	He had got a shelter by chance.
48:48	N:N	H:N	It was in a room heated by a stove, and as warm as summer.
49:49	N:H	H:H	He could exist here, he said, well enough.
50:50	N:Sa	N:S	"But it is not enough merely to exist," said he, "I need freedom, sunshine, and a little flower for a companion."
51:51	N:H	N:S	Then he flew against the window-pane, and was seen and admired by those in the room, who caught him, and stuck him on a pin, in a box of curiosities.
52:52	N:N	N:S	They could not do more for him.
53:53	N:N	S:S	"Now I am perched on a stalk, like the flowers," said the butterfly.
54:54	Sa:Sa	S:S	"It is not very pleasant, certainly; I should imagine it is something like being married; for here I am stuck fast."
55:55	Sa:H	S:H	And with this thought he consoled himself a little.
56:56	N:Sa	N:S	"That seems very poor consolation," said one of the plants in the room, that grew in a pot.
57:57	N:D	N:D	"Ah," thought the butterfly, "one can't very well trust these plants in pots; they have too much to do with mankind."
0:0	N:N	N:N	FROM my father I received the best inheritance, namely a "good temper."
1:1	N:N	N:N	"And who was my father?"
2:2	N:N	N:N	That has nothing to do with the good temper; but I will say he was lively, good-looking round, and fat; he was both in appearance and character a complete contradiction to his profession.
3:3	N:N	N:N	"And pray what was his profession and his standing in respectable society?"
4:4	N:Sa	N:N	Well, perhaps, if in the beginning of a book these were written and printed, many, when they read it, would lay the book down and say, "It seems to me a very miserable title, I don't like things of this sort."
5:5	N:N	N:N	And yet my father was not a skin-dresser nor an executioner; on the contrary, his employment placed him at the head of the grandest people of the town, and it was his place by right.
6:6	N:N	N:-	He had to precede the bishop, and even the princes of the blood; he always went first,- he was a hearse driver!
7:7	N:N	N:-	There, now, the truth is out.
8:8	N:N	N:-	And I will own, that when people saw my father perched up in front of the omnibus of death, dressed in his long, wide, black cloak, and his black-edged, three-cornered hat on his head, and then glanced at his round, jocund face, round as the sun, they could not think much of sorrow or the grave.
9:9	N:N	N:-	That face said, "It is nothing, it will all end better than people think."
10:10	H:N	H:N	So I have inherited from him, not only my good temper, but a habit of going often to the churchyard, which is good, when done in a proper humor; and then also I take in the Intelligencer, just as he used to do.
11:11	H:N	H:N	I am not very young, I have neither wife nor children, nor a library, but, as I said, I read the Intelligencer, which is enough for me; it is to me a delightful paper, and so it was to my father.
12:12	N:N	N:N	It is of great use, for it contains all that a man requires to know; the names of the preachers at the church, and the new books which are published; where houses, servants, clothes, and provisions may be obtained.
13:13	N:Su+	N:N	And then what a number of subscriptions to charities, and what innocent verses!
14:14	N:N	N:N	Persons seeking interviews and engagements, all so plainly and naturally stated.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Certainly, a man who takes in the Intelligencer may live merrily and be buried contentedly, and by the end of his life will have such a capital stock of paper that he can lie on a soft bed of it, unless he prefers wood shavings for his resting-place.
16:16	N:H	N:N	The newspaper and the churchyard were always exciting objects to me.
17:17	N:N	N:H	My walks to the latter were like bathing-places to my good humor.
18:18	N:N	N:H	Every one can read the newspaper for himself, but come with me to the churchyard while the sun shines and the trees are green, and let us wander among the graves.
19:19	N:N	N:N	Each of them is like a closed book, with the back uppermost, on which we can read the title of what the book contains, but nothing more.
20:20	N:N	N:N	I had a great deal of information from my father, and I have noticed a great deal myself.
21:21	N:N	N:N	I keep it in my diary, in which I write for my own use and pleasure a history of all who lie here, and a few more beside.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Now we are in the churchyard.
23:23	Sa:Sa	N:N	Here, behind the white iron railings, once a rose-tree grew; it is gone now, but a little bit of evergreen, from a neighboring grave, stretches out its green tendrils, and makes some appearance; there rests a very unhappy man, and yet while he lived he might be said to occupy a very good position.
24:24	A:N	N:A	He had enough to live upon, and something to spare; but owing to his refined tastes the least thing in the world annoyed him.
25:25	A:A	N:N	If he went to a theatre of an evening, instead of enjoying himself he would be quite annoyed if the machinist had put too strong a light into one side of the moon, or if the representations of the sky hung over the scenes when they ought to have hung behind them; or if a palm-tree was introduced into a scene representing the Zoological Gardens of Berlin, or a cactus in a view of Tyrol, or a beech-tree in the north of Norway.
26:26	Su-:Su-	-:-	As if these things were of any consequence!
27:27	Su-:N	-:-	Why did he not leave them alone?
28:28	Su-:Su-	-:-	Who would trouble themselves about such trifles? especially at a comedy, where every one is expected to be amused.
29:29	N:N	N:-	Then sometimes the public applauded too much, or too little, to please him.
30:30	D:N	N:-	"They are like wet wood," he would say, looking round to see what sort of people were present, "this evening; nothing fires them."
31:31	D:Sa	N:-	Then he would vex and fret himself because they did not laugh at the right time, or because they laughed in the wrong places; and so he fretted and worried himself till at last the unhappy man fretted himself into the grave.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Here rests a happy man, that is to say, a man of high birth and position, which was very lucky for him, otherwise he would have been scarcely worth notice.
33:33	H:N	H:N	It is beautiful to observe how wisely nature orders these things.
34:34	N:N	N:N	He walked about in a coat embroidered all over, and in the drawing-rooms of society looked just like one of those rich pearl-embroidered bell-pulls, which are only made for show; and behind them always hangs a good thick cord for use.
35:35	N:N	N:N	This man also had a stout, useful substitute behind him, who did duty for him, and performed all his dirty work.
36:36	N:N	N:N	And there are still, even now, these serviceable cords behind other embroidered bell-ropes.
37:37	N:N	N:N	It is all so wisely arranged, that a man may well be in a good humor.
38:38	N:Su-	N:-	Here rests,- ah, it makes one feel mournful to think of him!- but here rests a man who, during sixty-seven years, was never remembered to have said a good thing; he lived only in the hope of having a good idea.
39:39	N:H	H:-	At last he felt convinced, in his own mind, that he really had one, and was so delighted that he positively died of joy at the thought of having at last caught an idea.
40:40	N:N	N:N	Nobody got anything by it; indeed, no one even heard what the good thing was.
41:41	N:N	N:N	Now I can imagine that this same idea may prevent him from resting quietly in his grave; for suppose that to produce a good effect, it is necessary to bring out his new idea at breakfast, and that he can only make his appearance on earth at midnight, as ghosts are believed generally to do; why then this good idea would not suit the hour, and the man would have to carry it down again with him into the grave- that must be a troubled grave.
42:42	N:N	N:-	The woman who lies here was so remarkably stingy, that during her life she would get up in the night and mew, that her neighbors might think she kept a cat.
43:43	D:Su-	D:-	What a miser she was!
44:44	N:N	N:N	Here rests a young lady, of a good family, who would always make her voice heard in society, and when she sang "Mi manca la voce,"* it was the only true thing she ever said in her life.
45:45	N:N	N:N	* "I want a voice," or, "I have no voice."
46:46	N:N	N:N	Here lies a maiden of another description.
47:47	N:N	N:N	She was engaged to be married,- but, her story is one of every-day life; we will leave her to rest in the grave.
48:48	N:N	N:S	Here rests a widow, who, with music in her tongue, carried gall in her heart.
49:49	N:N	N:A	She used to go round among the families near, and search out their faults, upon which she preyed with all the envy and malice of her nature.
50:50	N:N	N:N	This is a family grave.
51:51	N:N	N:N	The members of this family held so firmly together in their opinions, that they would believe in no other.
52:52	N:N	N:-	If the newspapers, or even the whole world, said of a certain subject, "It is so-and-so;" and a little schoolboy declared he had learned quite differently, they would take his assertion as the only true one, because he belonged to the family.
53:53	N:N	N:-	And it is well known that if the yard-cock belonging to this family happened to crow at midnight, they would declare it was morning, although the watchman and all the clocks in the town were proclaiming the hour of twelve at night.
54:54	N:N	N:N	The great poet Goethe concludes his Faust with the words, "may be continued;" so might our wanderings in the churchyard be continued.
55:55	Su-:N	-:N	I come here often, and if any of my friends, or those who are not my friends, are too much for me, I go out and choose a plot of ground in which to bury him or her.
56:56	Su-:N	-:N	Then I bury them, as it were; there they lie, dead and powerless, till they come back new and better characters.
57:57	N:N	N:N	Their lives and their deeds, looked at after my own fashion, I write down in my diary, as every one ought to do.
58:58	Su-:N	-:N	Then, if any of our friends act absurdly, no one need to be vexed about it.
59:59	H:N	H:N	Let them bury the offenders out of sight, and keep their good temper.
60:60	N:N	N:N	They can also read the Intelligencer, which is a paper written by the people, with their hands guided.
61:61	N:N	N:N	When the time comes for the history of my life, to be bound by the grave, then they will write upon it as my epitaph-
62:62	H:N	H:H	"The man with a cheerful temper."
63:63	N:N	N:N	And this is my story.
0:0	N:N	S:S	IT was a very sad day, and every heart in the house felt the deepest grief; for the youngest child, a boy of four years old, the joy and hope of his parents, was dead.
1:1	N:N	S:S	Two daughters, the elder of whom was going to be confirmed, still remained: they were both good, charming girls; but the lost child always seems the dearest; and when it is youngest, and a son, it makes the trial still more heavy.
2:2	Sa:Sa	S:S	The sisters mourned as young hearts can mourn, and were especially grieved at the sight of their parents' sorrow.
3:3	Sa:Sa	S:S	The father's heart was bowed down, but the mother sunk completely under the deep grief.
4:4	N:N	S:S	Day and night she had attended to the sick child, nursing and carrying it in her bosom, as a part of herself.
5:5	N:N	S:S	She could not realize the fact that the child was dead, and must be laid in a coffin to rest in the ground.
6:6	Sa:Sa	S:S	She thought God could not take her darling little one from her; and when it did happen notwithstanding her hopes and her belief, and there could be no more doubt on the subject, she said in her feverish agony, "God does not know it.
7:7	N:N	S:S	He has hard-hearted ministering spirits on earth, who do according to their own will, and heed not a mother's prayers."
8:8	Sa:N	S:A	Thus in her great grief she fell away from her faith in God, and dark thoughts arose in her mind respecting death and a future state.
9:9	N:N	S:A	She tried to believe that man was but dust, and that with his life all existence ended.
10:10	Sa:Sa	S:S	But these doubts were no support to her, nothing on which she could rest, and she sunk into the fathomless depths of despair.
11:11	N:Sa	S:S	In her darkest hours she ceased to weep, and thought not of the young daughters who were still left to her.
12:12	Sa:Sa	S:S	The tears of her husband fell on her forehead, but she took no notice of him; her thoughts were with her dead child; her whole existence seemed wrapped up in the remembrances of the little one and of every innocent word it had uttered.
13:13	N:N	N:S	The day of the little child's funeral came.
14:14	N:N	S:S	For nights previously the mother had not slept, but in the morning twilight of this day she sunk from weariness into a deep sleep; in the mean time the coffin was carried into a distant room, and there nailed down, that she might not hear the blows of the hammer.
15:15	Sa:Sa	S:S	When she awoke, and wanted to see her child, the husband, with tears, said, "We have closed the coffin; it was necessary to do so."
16:16	Sa:Sa	S:S	"When God is so hard to me, how can I expect men to be better?" she said with groans and tears.
17:17	N:N	S:S	The coffin was carried to the grave, and the disconsolate mother sat with her young daughters.
18:18	N:N	S:S	She looked at them, but she saw them not; for her thoughts were far away from the domestic hearth.
19:19	Sa:N	S:S	She gave herself up to her grief, and it tossed her to and fro, as the sea tosses a ship without compass or rudder.
20:20	N:N	S:S	So the day of the funeral passed away, and similar days followed, of dark, wearisome pain.
21:21	Sa:Sa	S:S	With tearful eyes and mournful glances, the sorrowing daughters and the afflicted husband looked upon her who would not hear their words of comfort; and, indeed, what comforting words could they speak, when they were themselves so full of grief?
22:22	N:N	S:S	It seemed as if she would never again know sleep, and yet it would have been her best friend, one who would have strengthened her body and poured peace into her soul.
23:23	N:N	S:S	They at last persuaded her to lie down, and then she would lie as still as if she slept.
24:24	N:N	S:S	One night, when her husband listened, as he often did, to her breathing, he quite believed that she had at length found rest and relief in sleep.
25:25	N:N	N:S	He folded his arms and prayed, and soon sunk himself into healthful sleep; therefore he did not notice that his wife arose, threw on her clothes, and glided silently from the house, to go where her thoughts constantly lingered- to the grave of her child.
26:26	N:N	N:S	She passed through the garden, to a path across a field that led to the churchyard.
27:27	N:N	N:S	No one saw her as she walked, nor did she see any one; for her eyes were fixed upon the one object of her wanderings.
28:28	N:N	N:N	It was a lovely starlight night in the beginning of September, and the air was mild and still.
29:29	N:N	N:S	She entered the churchyard, and stood by the little grave, which looked like a large nosegay of fragrant flowers.
30:30	N:N	N:S	She sat down, and bent her head low over the grave, as if she could see her child through the earth that covered him- her little boy, whose smile was so vividly before her, and the gentle expression of whose eyes, even on his sick-bed, she could not forget.
31:31	N:N	S:S	How full of meaning that glance had been, as she leaned over him, holding in hers the pale hand which he had no longer strength to raise!
32:32	Sa:Sa	S:S	As she had sat by his little cot, so now she sat by his grave; and here she could weep freely, and her tears fell upon it.
33:33	N:N	N:-	"Thou wouldst gladly go down and be with thy child," said a voice quite close to her,- a voice that sounded so deep and clear, that it went to her heart.
34:34	N:N	N:-	She looked up, and by her side stood a man wrapped in a black cloak, with a hood closely drawn over his face; but her keen glance could distinguish the face under the hood.
35:35	N:N	N:-	It was stern, yet awakened confidence, and the eyes beamed with youthful radiance.
36:36	Sa:Sa	S:-	"Down to my child," she repeated; and tones of despair and entreaty sounded in the words.
37:37	N:N	N:-	"Darest thou to follow me?" asked the form.
38:38	N:N	N:-	"I am Death."
39:39	N:N	N:-	She bowed her head in token of assent.
40:40	N:N	N:-	Then suddenly it appeared as if all the stars were shining with the radiance of the full moon on the many-colored flowers that decked the grave.
41:41	N:N	N:-	The earth that covered it was drawn back like a floating drapery.
42:42	N:N	N:-	She sunk down, and the spectre covered her with a black cloak; night closed around her, the night of death.
43:43	N:N	N:-	She sank deeper than the spade of the sexton could penetrate, till the churchyard became a roof above her.
44:44	Su+:H	+:-	Then the cloak was removed, and she found herself in a large hall, of wide-spreading dimensions, in which there was a subdued light, like twilight, reigning, and in a moment her child appeared before her, smiling, and more beautiful than ever; with a silent cry she pressed him to her heart.
45:45	N:N	+:H	A glorious strain of music sounded- now distant, now near.
46:46	Su+:N	+:N	Never had she listened to such tones as these; they came from beyond a large dark curtain which separated the regions of death from the land of eternity.
47:47	H:N	H:N	"My sweet, darling mother," she heard the child say.
48:48	H:N	H:N	It was the well-known, beloved voice; and kiss followed kiss, in boundless delight.
49:49	N:N	N:N	Then the child pointed to the dark curtain.
50:50	H:N	H:H	"There is nothing so beautiful on earth as it is here.
51:51	N:N	N:H	Mother, do you not see them all?
52:52	H:N	H:H	Oh, it is happiness indeed."
53:53	N:N	N:N	But the mother saw nothing of what the child pointed out, only the dark curtain.
54:54	N:N	N:N	She looked with earthly eyes, and could not see as the child saw,- he whom God has called to be with Himself.
55:55	N:N	N:N	She could hear the sounds of music, but she heard not the words, the Word in which she was to trust.
56:56	H:N	H:H	"I can fly now, mother," said the child; "I can fly with other happy children into the presence of the Almighty.
57:57	N:N	N:-	I would fain fly away now; but if you weep for me as you are weeping now, you may never see me again.
58:58	N:N	N:-	And yet I would go so gladly.
59:59	N:N	N:-	May I not fly away?
60:60	N:N	N:-	And you will come to me soon, will you not, dear mother?"
61:61	Sa:Sa	S:N	"Oh, stay, stay!" implored the mother; "only one moment more; only once more, that I may look upon thee, and kiss thee, and press thee to my heart."
62:62	N:N	N:H	Then she kissed and fondled her child.
63:63	N:N	-:-	Suddenly her name was called from above; what could it mean? her name uttered in a plaintive voice.
64:64	N:N	N:-	"Hearest thou?" said the child.
65:65	N:N	N:-	"It is my father who calls thee."
66:66	N:N	S:S	And in a few moments deep sighs were heard, as of children weeping.
67:67	N:N	N:S	"They are my sisters," said the child.
68:68	N:N	N:S	"Mother, surely you have not forgotten them."
69:69	F:F	S:S	And then she remembered those she left behind, and a great terror came over her.
70:70	N:N	S:S	She looked around her at the dark night.
71:71	N:N	N:S	Dim forms flitted by.
72:72	N:N	N:S	She seemed to recognize some of them, as they floated through the regions of death towards the dark curtain, where they vanished.
73:73	N:N	N:N	Would her husband and her daughters flit past?
74:74	N:Sa	N:S	No; their sighs and lamentations still sounded from above; and she had nearly forgotten them, for the sake of him who was dead.
75:75	N:N	N:S	"Mother, now the bells of heaven are ringing," said the child; "mother, the sun is going to rise."
76:76	N:N	N:N	An overpowering light streamed in upon her, the child had vanished, and she was being borne upwards.
77:77	N:N	N:S	All around her became cold; she lifted her head, and saw that she was lying in the churchyard, on the grave of her child.
78:78	N:N	N:N	The Lord, in a dream, had been a guide to her feet and a light to her spirit.
79:79	N:N	N:N	She bowed her knees, and prayed for forgiveness.
80:80	N:N	N:N	She had wished to keep back a soul from its immortal flight; she had forgotten her duties towards the living who were left her.
81:81	H:N	H:H	And when she had offered this prayer, her heart felt lighter.
82:82	N:N	H:H	The sun burst forth, over her head a little bird carolled his song, and the church-bells sounded for the early service.
83:83	H:N	H:H	Everything around her seemed holy, and her heart was chastened.
84:84	N:N	H:H	She acknowledged the goodness of God, she acknowledged the duties she had to perform, and eagerly she returned home.
85:85	N:H	H:H	She bent over her husband, who still slept; her warm, devoted kiss awakened him, and words of heartfelt love fell from the lips of both.
86:86	H:N	H:H	Now she was gentle and strong as a wife can be; and from her lips came the words of faith: "Whatever He doeth is right and best."
87:87	Su+:N	+:N	Then her husband asked, "From whence hast thou all at once derived such strength and comforting faith?"
88:88	H:N	H:H	And as she kissed him and her children, she said, "It came from God, through my child in the grave."
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE were two cocks- one on the dung-hill, the other on the roof.
1:1	N:N	N:N	They were both arrogant, but which of the two rendered most service?
2:2	N:N	N:N	Tell us your opinion- we'll keep to ours just the same though.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The poultry yard was divided by some planks from another yard in which there was a dung-hill, and on the dung-hill lay and grew a large cucumber which was conscious of being a hot-bed plant.
4:4	N:N	N:N	"One is born to that," said the cucumber to itself.
5:5	A:N	N:N	"Not all can be born cucumbers; there must be other things, too.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The hens, the ducks, and all the animals in the next yard are creatures too.
7:7	H:N	N:N	Now I have a great opinion of the yard cock on the plank; he is certainly of much more importance than the weather-cock who is placed so high and can't even creak, much less crow.
8:8	D:N	A:N	The latter has neither hens nor chicks, and only thinks of himself and perspires verdigris.
9:9	Su+:N	A:N	No, the yard cock is really a cock!
10:10	H:N	A:N	His step is a dance!
11:11	H:N	H:+	His crowing is music, and wherever he goes one knows what a trumpeter is like!
12:12	Sa:N	S:+	If he would only come in here!
13:13	H:H	H:-	Even if he ate me up stump, stalk, and all, and I had to dissolve in his body, it would be a happy death," said the cucumber.
14:14	F:N	F:F	In the night there was a terrible storm.
15:15	F:N	F:F	The hens, chicks, and even the cock sought shelter; the wind tore down the planks between the two yards with a crash; the tiles came tumbling down, but the weather-cock sat firm.
16:16	N:N	F:F	He did not even turn round, for he could not; and yet he was young and freshly cast, but prudent and sedate.
17:17	A:A	F:A	He had been born old, and did not at all resemble the birds flying in the air- the sparrows, and the swallows; no, he despised them, these mean little piping birds, these common whistlers.
18:18	A:A	F:A	He admitted that the pigeons, large and white and shining like mother-o'-pearl, looked like a kind of weather-cock; but they were fat and stupid, and all their thoughts and endeavours were directed to filling themselves with food, and besides, they were tiresome things to converse with.
19:19	N:N	F:N	The birds of passage had also paid the weather-cock a visit and told him of foreign countries, of airy caravans and robber stories that made one's hair stand on end.
20:20	A:A	A:A	All this was new and interesting; that is, for the first time, but afterwards, as the weather-cock found out, they repeated themselves and always told the same stories, and that's very tedious, and there was no one with whom one could associate, for one and all were stale and small-minded.
21:21	A:A	A:A	"The world is no good!" he said.
22:22	A:A	A:A	"Everything in it is so stupid."
23:23	A:N	A:N	The weather-cock was puffed up, and that quality would have made him interesting in the eyes of the cucumber if it had known it, but it had eyes only for the yard cock, who was now in the yard with it.
24:24	Sa:N	A:N	The wind had blown the planks, but the storm was over.
25:25	A:N	A:N	"What do you think of that crowing?" said the yard cock to the hens and chickens.
26:26	D:N	A:N	"It was a little rough- it wanted elegance."
27:27	H:N	A:N	And the hens and chickens came up on the dung-hill, and the cock strutted about like a lord.
28:28	Su+:N	+:N	"Garden plant!" he said to the cucumber, and in that one word his deep learning showed itself, and it forgot that he was pecking at her and eating it up.
29:29	H:H	+:-	"A happy death!"
30:30	H:H	+:-	The hens and the chickens came, for where one runs the others run too; they clucked, and chirped, and looked at the cock, and were proud that he was of their kind.
31:31	H:N	H:+	"Cock-a-doodle-doo!" he crowed, "the chickens will grow up into great hens at once, if I cry it out in the poultry-yard of the world!"
32:32	H:N	H:+	And hens and chicks clucked and chirped, and the cock announced a great piece of news.
33:33	H:N	H:-	"A cock can lay an egg!
34:34	H:N	H:-	And do you know what's in that egg?
35:35	N:N	H:-	A basilisk.
36:36	H:N	H:-	No one can stand the sight of such a thing; people know that, and now you know it too- you know what is in me, and what a champion of all cocks I am!"
37:37	H:H	H:-	With that the yard cock flapped his wings, made his comb swell up, and crowed again; and they all shuddered, the hens and the little chicks- but they were very proud that one of their number was such a champion of all cocks.
38:38	H:N	H:N	They clucked and chirped till the weather-cock heard; he heard it; but he did not stir.
39:39	A:A	A:A	"Everything is very stupid," the weather-cock said to himself.
40:40	A:N	A:A	"The yard cock lays no eggs, and I am too lazy to do so; if I liked, I could lay a wind-egg.
41:41	A:N	A:A	But the world is not worth even a wind-egg.
42:42	A:A	A:A	Everything is so stupid!
43:43	A:A	A:A	I don't want to sit here any longer."
44:44	F:A	F:A	With that the weather-cock broke off; but he did not kill the yard cock, although the hens said that had been his intention.
45:45	N:N	F:N	And what is the moral?
46:46	Su+:N	+:N	"Better to crow than to be puffed up and break off!
0:0	N:N	N:N	Now listen!
1:1	N:N	N:N	In the country, close by the high road, stood a farmhouse; perhaps you have passed by and seen it yourself.
2:2	N:N	N:N	There was a little flower garden with painted wooden palings in front of it; close by was a ditch, on its fresh green bank grew a little daisy; the sun shone as warmly and brightly upon it as on the magnificent garden flowers, and therefore it thrived well.
3:3	N:N	N:N	One morning it had quite opened, and its little snow-white petals stood round the yellow centre, like the rays of the sun.
4:4	H:H	H:N	It did not mind that nobody saw it in the grass, and that it was a poor despised flower; on the contrary, it was quite happy, and turned towards the sun, looking upward and listening to the song of the lark high up in the air.
5:5	H:H	H:N	The little daisy was as happy as if the day had been a great holiday, but it was only Monday.
6:6	N:H	H:N	All the children were at school, and while they were sitting on the forms and learning their lessons, it sat on its thin green stalk and learnt from the sun and from its surroundings how kind God is, and it rejoiced that the song of the little lark expressed so sweetly and distinctly its own feelings.
7:7	N:N	H:H	With a sort of reverence the daisy looked up to the bird that could fly and sing, but it did not feel envious.
8:8	H:N	H:H	"I can see and hear," it thought; "the sun shines upon me, and the forest kisses me.
9:9	H:H	H:H	How rich I am!"
10:10	N:N	N:N	In the garden close by grew many large and magnificent flowers, and, strange to say, the less fragrance they had the haughtier and prouder they were.
11:11	N:N	N:N	The peonies puffed themselves up in order to be larger than the roses, but size is not everything!
12:12	N:N	N:N	The tulips had the finest colours, and they knew it well, too, for they were standing bolt upright like candles, that one might see them the better.
13:13	H:Su+	H:N	In their pride they did not see the little daisy, which looked over to them and thought, "How rich and beautiful they are!
14:14	N:N	N:N	I am sure the pretty bird will fly down and call upon them.
15:15	H:N	H:N	Thank God, that I stand so near and can at least see all the splendour."
16:16	N:N	N:N	And while the daisy was still thinking, the lark came flying down, crying "Tweet," but not to the peonies and tulips- no, into the grass to the poor daisy.
17:17	H:H	H:H	Its joy was so great that it did not know what to think.
18:18	H:H	H:H	The little bird hopped round it and sang, "How beautifully soft the grass is, and what a lovely little flower with its golden heart and silver dress is growing here."
19:19	N:N	H:N	The yellow centre in the daisy did indeed look like gold, while the little petals shone as brightly as silver.
20:20	H:H	H:H	How happy the daisy was!
21:21	N:N	H:N	No one has the least idea.
22:22	N:N	H:H	The bird kissed it with its beak, sang to it, and then rose again up to the blue sky.
23:23	N:N	H:H	It was certainly more than a quarter of an hour before the daisy recovered its senses.
24:24	N:H	H:H	Half ashamed, yet glad at heart, it looked over to the other flowers in the garden; surely they had witnessed its pleasure and the honour that had been done to it; they understood its joy.
25:25	A:A	A:N	But the tulips stood more stiffly than ever, their faces were pointed and red, because they were vexed.
26:26	Sa:Sa	D:N	The peonies were sulky; it was well that they could not speak, otherwise they would have given the daisy a good lecture.
27:27	Sa:Sa	S:N	The little flower could very well see that they were ill at ease, and pitied them sincerely.
28:28	N:N	N:-	Shortly after this a girl came into the garden, with a large sharp knife.
29:29	N:N	N:-	She went to the tulips and began cutting them off, one after another.
30:30	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Ugh!" sighed the daisy, "that is terrible; now they are done for."
31:31	N:N	N:-	The girl carried the tulips away.
32:32	H:H	H:N	The daisy was glad that it was outside, and only a small flower- it felt very grateful.
33:33	N:N	N:N	At sunset it folded its petals, and fell asleep, and dreamt all night of the sun and the little bird.
34:34	N:N	N:S	On the following morning, when the flower once more stretched forth its tender petals, like little arms, towards the air and light, the daisy recognised the bird's voice, but what it sang sounded so sad.
35:35	Sa:Sa	S:S	Indeed the poor bird had good reason to be sad, for it had been caught and put into a cage close by the open window.
36:36	N:N	S:S	It sang of the happy days when it could merrily fly about, of fresh green corn in the fields, and of the time when it could soar almost up to the clouds.
37:37	Sa:Sa	S:S	The poor lark was most unhappy as a prisoner in a cage.
38:38	N:N	S:N	The little daisy would have liked so much to help it, but what could be done?
39:39	N:N	N:N	Indeed, that was very difficult for such a small flower to find out.
40:40	N:N	S:S	It entirely forgot how beautiful everything around it was, how warmly the sun was shining, and how splendidly white its own petals were.
41:41	N:N	S:S	It could only think of the poor captive bird, for which it could do nothing.
42:42	N:N	N:-	Then two little boys came out of the garden; one of them had a large sharp knife, like that with which the girl had cut the tulips.
43:43	N:N	N:-	They came straight towards the little daisy, which could not understand what they wanted.
44:44	N:N	N:-	"Here is a fine piece of turf for the lark," said one of the boys, and began to cut out a square round the daisy, so that it remained in the centre of the grass.
45:45	F:F	F:-	"Pluck the flower off" said the other boy, and the daisy trembled for fear, for to be pulled off meant death to it; and it wished so much to live, as it was to go with the square of turf into the poor captive lark's cage.
46:46	N:N	N:-	"No let it stay," said the other boy, "it looks so pretty".
47:47	N:N	N:-	And so it stayed, and was brought into the lark's cage.
48:48	Sa:Sa	S:S	The poor bird was lamenting its lost liberty, and beating its wings against the wires; and the little daisy could not speak or utter a consoling word, much as it would have liked to do so.
49:49	N:N	N:S	So the forenoon passed.
50:50	Sa:N	S:S	"I have no water," said the captive lark, "they have all gone out, and forgotten to give me anything to drink.
51:51	Sa:N	S:S	My throat is dry and burning.
52:52	Sa:N	S:S	I feel as if I had fire and ice within me, and the air is so oppressive.
53:53	Sa:Su-	S:S	Alas!
54:54	Sa:N	S:S	I must die, and part with the warm sunshine, the fresh green meadows, and all the beauty that God has created."
55:55	N:N	N:S	And it thrust its beak into the piece of grass, to refresh itself a little.
56:56	Sa:N	S:S	Then it noticed the little daisy, and nodded to it, and kissed it with its beak and said: "You must also fade in here, poor little flower.
57:57	N:N	S:S	You and the piece of grass are all they have given me in exchange for the whole world, which I enjoyed outside.
58:58	N:N	S:S	Each little blade of grass shall be a green tree for me, each of your white petals a fragrant flower.
59:59	Sa:Sa	S:S	Alas! you only remind me of what I have lost."
60:60	N:N	N:S	"I wish I could console the poor lark," thought the daisy.
61:61	N:N	N:S	It could not move one of its leaves, but the fragrance of its delicate petals streamed forth, and was much stronger than such flowers usually have: the bird noticed it, although it was dying with thirst, and in its pain tore up the green blades of grass, but did not touch the flower.
62:62	Sa:Sa	S:S	The evening came, and nobody appeared to bring the poor bird a drop of water; it opened its beautiful wings, and fluttered about in its anguish; a faint and mournful "Tweet, tweet," was all it could utter, then it bent its little head towards the flower, and its heart broke for want and longing.
63:63	Sa:Sa	S:S	The flower could not, as on the previous evening, fold up its petals and sleep; it dropped sorrowfully.
64:64	Sa:Sa	S:S	The boys only came the next morning; when they saw the dead bird, they began to cry bitterly, dug a nice grave for it, and adorned it with flowers.
65:65	N:N	S:S	The bird's body was placed in a pretty red box; they wished to bury it with royal honours.
66:66	N:Sa	S:S	While it was alive and sang they forgot it, and let it suffer want in the cage; now, they cried over it and covered it with flowers.
67:67	N:N	-:S	The piece of turf, with the little daisy in it, was thrown out on the dusty highway.
68:68	N:N	S:S	Nobody thought of the flower which had felt so much for the bird and had so greatly desired to comfort it.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a darning-needle who thought herself so fine that she fancied she must be fit for embroidery.
1:1	N:N	N:N	"Hold me tight," she would say to the fingers, when they took her up, "don't let me fall; if you do I shall never be found again, I am so very fine."
2:2	N:N	N:A	"That is your opinion, is it?" said the fingers, as they seized her round the body.
3:3	N:N	N:N	"See, I am coming with a train," said the darning-needle, drawing a long thread after her; but there was no knot in the thread.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The fingers then placed the point of the needle against the cook's slipper.
5:5	N:N	N:N	There was a crack in the upper leather, which had to be sewn together.
6:6	Su-:A	-:A	"What coarse work!" said the darning-needle, "I shall never get through.
7:7	Su-:A	-:S	I shall break!- I am breaking!" and sure enough she broke.
8:8	A:N	-:A	"Did I not say so?" said the darning-needle, "I know I am too fine for such work as that."
9:9	N:N	N:A	"This needle is quite useless for sewing now," said the fingers; but they still held it fast, and the cook dropped some sealing-wax on the needle, and fastened her handkerchief with it in front.
10:10	N:H	N:N	"So now I am a breast-pin," said the darning-needle; "I knew very well I should come to honor some day: merit is sure to rise;" and she laughed, quietly to herself, for of course no one ever saw a darning-needle laugh.
11:11	H:H	H:H	And there she sat as proudly as if she were in a state coach, and looked all around her.
12:12	N:N	N:N	"May I be allowed to ask if you are made of gold?" she inquired of her neighbor, a pin; "you have a very pretty appearance, and a curious head, although you are rather small.
13:13	N:N	-:F	You must take pains to grow, for it is not every one who has sealing-wax dropped upon him;" and as she spoke, the darning-needle drew herself up so proudly that she fell out of the handkerchief right into the sink, which the cook was cleaning.
14:14	F:F	-:F	"Now I am going on a journey," said the needle, as she floated away with the dirty water, "I do hope I shall not be lost."
15:15	N:N	N:F	But she really was lost in a gutter.
16:16	D:N	D:N	"I am too fine for this world," said the darning-needle, as she lay in the gutter; "but I know who I am, and that is always some comfort."
17:17	N:H	N:H	So the darning-needle kept up her proud behavior, and did not lose her good humor.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Then there floated over her all sorts of things,- chips and straws, and pieces of old newspaper.
19:19	N:N	N:N	"See how they sail," said the darning-needle; "they do not know what is under them.
20:20	N:N	N:N	I am here, and here I shall stick.
21:21	N:N	N:N	See, there goes a chip, thinking of nothing in the world but himself- only a chip.
22:22	N:N	N:N	There's a straw going by now; how he turns and twists about!
23:23	N:N	N:N	Don't be thinking too much of yourself, or you may chance to run against a stone.
24:24	N:N	N:N	There swims a piece of newspaper; what is written upon it has been forgotten long ago, and yet it gives itself airs.
25:25	N:N	N:N	I sit here patiently and quietly.
26:26	N:N	N:N	I know who I am, so I shall not move."
27:27	N:N	N:N	One day something lying close to the darning-needle glittered so splendidly that she thought it was a diamond; yet it was only a piece of broken bottle.
28:28	N:N	N:N	The darning-needle spoke to it, because it sparkled, and represented herself as a breast-pin.
29:29	N:H	N:N	"I suppose you are really a diamond?" she said.
30:30	N:N	N:N	"Why yes, something of the kind," he replied; and so each believed the other to be very valuable, and then they began to talk about the world, and the conceited people in it.
31:31	H:N	H:N	"I have been in a lady's work-box," said the darning-needle, "and this lady was the cook.
32:32	H:N	H:N	She had on each hand five fingers, and anything so conceited as these five fingers I have never seen; and yet they were only employed to take me out of the box and to put me back again."
33:33	N:N	N:N	"Were they not high-born?"
34:34	N:Su-	N:-	"High-born!" said the darning-needle, "no indeed, but so haughty.
35:35	N:N	N:N	They were five brothers, all born fingers; they kept very proudly together, though they were of different lengths.
36:36	N:N	N:N	The one who stood first in the rank was named the thumb, he was short and thick, and had only one joint in his back, and could therefore make but one bow; but he said that if he were cut off from a man's hand, that man would be unfit for a soldier.
37:37	N:N	N:N	Sweet-tooth, his neighbor, dipped himself into sweet or sour, pointed to the sun and moon, and formed the letters when the fingers wrote.
38:38	N:N	N:N	Longman, the middle finger, looked over the heads of all the others.
39:39	N:N	N:N	Gold-band, the next finger, wore a golden circle round his waist.
40:40	N:N	N:N	And little Playman did nothing at all, and seemed proud of it.
41:41	N:N	N:N	They were boasters, and boasters they will remain; and therefore I left them."
42:42	N:N	N:H	"And now we sit here and glitter," said the piece of broken bottle.
43:43	N:N	N:N	At the same moment more water streamed into the gutter, so that it overflowed, and the piece of bottle was carried away.
44:44	N:N	N:-	"So he is promoted," said the darning-needle, "while I remain here; I am too fine, but that is my pride, and what do I care?"
45:45	H:N	H:-	And so she sat there in her pride, and had many such thoughts as these,- "I could almost fancy that I came from a sunbeam, I am so fine.
46:46	N:N	H:N	It seems as if the sunbeams were always looking for me under the water.
47:47	H:Su-	H:-	Ah!
48:48	Sa:N	S:-	I am so fine that even my mother cannot find me.
49:49	Sa:Sa	S:S	Had I still my old eye, which was broken off, I believe I should weep; but no, I would not do that, it is not genteel to cry."
50:50	N:N	N:N	One day a couple of street boys were paddling in the gutter, for they sometimes found old nails, farthings, and other treasures.
51:51	H:H	H:N	It was dirty work, but they took great pleasure in it.
52:52	Su-:N	-:-	"Hallo!" cried one, as he pricked himself with the darning-needle, "here's a fellow for you."
53:53	D:A	D:N	"I am not a fellow, I am a young lady," said the darning-needle; but no one heard her.
54:54	H:N	H:-	The sealing-wax had come off, and she was quite black; but black makes a person look slender, so she thought herself even finer than before.
55:55	N:N	N:-	"Here comes an egg-shell sailing along," said one of the boys; so they stuck the darning-needle into the egg-shell.
56:56	N:F	N:N	"White walls, and I am black myself," said the darning-needle, "that looks well; now I can be seen, but I hope I shall not be sea-sick, or I shall break again."
57:57	N:N	N:N	She was not sea-sick, and she did not break.
58:58	N:N	N:N	"It is a good thing against sea-sickness to have a steel stomach, and not to forget one's own importance.
59:59	N:N	N:-	Now my sea-sickness has past: delicate people can bear a great deal."
60:60	N:N	N:-	Crack went the egg-shell, as a waggon passed over it.
61:61	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Good heavens, how it crushes!" said the darning-needle.
62:62	Su-:D	-:-	"I shall be sick now.
63:63	F:F	-:-	I am breaking!" but she did not break, though the waggon went over her as she lay at full length; and there let her lie.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was an old mansion surrounded by a marshy ditch with a drawbridge which was but seldom let down:- not all guests are good people.
1:1	N:N	N:-	Under the roof were loopholes to shoot through, and to pour down boiling water or even molten lead on the enemy, should he approach.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Inside the house the rooms were very high and had ceilings of beams, and that was very useful considering the great deal of smoke which rose up from the chimney fire where the large, damp logs of wood smouldered.
3:3	N:N	N:N	On the walls hung pictures of knights in armour and proud ladies in gorgeous dresses; the most stately of all walked about alive.
4:4	N:N	N:N	She was called Meta Mogen; she was the mistress of the house, to her belonged the castle.
5:5	F:A	F:-	Towards the evening robbers came; they killed three of her people and also the yard-dog, and attached Mrs. Meta to the kennel by the chain, while they themselves made good cheer in the hall and drank the wine and the good ale out of her cellar.
6:6	F:N	F:-	Mrs. Meta was now on the chain, she could not even bark.
7:7	Sa:N	F:N	But lo! the servant of one of the robbers secretly approached her; they must not see it, otherwise they would have killed him.
8:8	N:N	F:N	"Mrs. Meta Mogen," said the fellow, "do you still remember how my father, when your husband was still alive, had to ride on the wooden horse?
9:9	Su+:N	F:N	You prayed for him, but it was no good, he was to ride until his limbs were paralysed; but you stole down to him, as I steal now to you, you yourself put little stones under each of his feet that he might have support, nobody saw it, or they pretended not to see it, for you were then the young gracious mistress.
10:10	H:N	F:N	My father has told me this, and I have not forgotten it!
11:11	H:N	H:N	Now I will free you, Mrs. Meta Mogen!"
12:12	H:N	H:N	Then they pulled the horses out of the stable and rode off in rain and wind to obtain the assistance of friends.
13:13	H:H	H:H	"Thus the small service done to the old man was richly rewarded!" said Meta Mogen.
14:14	N:N	H:N	"Delaying is not forgetting," said the fellow.
15:15	H:N	H:-	The robbers were hanged.
16:16	N:N	H:N	There was an old mansion, it is still there; it did not belong to Mrs. Meta Mogen, it belonged to another old noble family.
17:17	N:N	H:N	We are now in the present time.
18:18	N:N	H:N	The sun is shining on the gilt knob of the tower, little wooded islands lie like bouquets on the water, and wild swans are swimming round them.
19:19	H:H	H:H	In the garden grow roses; the mistress of the house is herself the finest rose petal, she beams with joy, the joy of good deeds: however, not done in the wide world, but in her heart, and what is preserved there is not forgotten.
20:20	N:N	H:N	Delaying is not forgetting!
21:21	N:N	H:N	Now she goes from the mansion to a little peasant hut in the field.
22:22	Sa:N	S:S	Therein lives a poor paralysed girl; the window of her little room looks northward, the sun does not enter here.
23:23	Sa:N	S:S	The girl can only see a small piece of field which is surrounded by a high fence.
24:24	H:N	S:H	But to-day the sun shines here- the warm, beautiful sun of God is within the little room; it comes from the south through the new window, where formerly the wall was.
25:25	H:H	H:H	The paralysed girl sits in the warm sunshine and can see the wood and the lake; the world had become so large, so beautiful, and only through a single word from the kind mistress of the mansion.
26:26	H:H	H:H	"The word was so easy, the deed so small," she said, "the joy it afforded me was infinitely great and sweet!"
27:27	H:N	H:N	And therefore she does many a good deed, thinks of all in the humble cottages and in the rich mansions, where there are also afflicted ones.
28:28	H:N	H:N	It is concealed and hidden, but God does not forget it.
29:29	H:N	H:N	Delayed is not forgotten!
30:30	N:N	H:N	An old house stood there; it was in the large town with its busy traffic.
31:31	N:N	H:N	There are rooms and halls in it, but we do not enter them, we remain in the kitchen, where it is warm and light, clean and tidy; the copper utensils are shining, the table as if polished with beeswax; the sink looks like a freshly scoured meatboard.
32:32	Sa:N	S:N	All this a single servant has done, and yet she has time to spare as if she wished to go to church; she wears a bow on her cap, a black bow, that signifies mourning.
33:33	Sa:N	S:S	But she has no one to mourn, neither father nor mother, neither relations nor sweetheart.
34:34	Sa:N	S:S	She is a poor girl.
35:35	H:N	S:H	One day she was engaged to a poor fellow; they loved each other dearly.
36:36	Sa:N	S:N	One day he came to her and said: "We both have nothing!
37:37	Sa:N	S:N	The rich widow over the way in the basement has made advances to me; she will make me rich, but you are in my heart; what do you advise me to do?"
38:38	Sa:N	S:N	"I advise you to do what you think will turn out to your happiness," said the girl.
39:39	Sa:N	S:S	"Be kind and good to her, but remember this; from the hour we part we shall never see each other again."
40:40	Su-:N	S:S	Years passed; then one day she met the old friend and sweetheart in the street; he looked ill and miserable, and she could not help asking him, "How are you?"
41:41	Sa:N	S:S	"Rich and prospering in every respect," he said; "the woman is brave and good, but you are in my heart.
42:42	Sa:N	S:N	I have fought the battle, it will soon be ended; we shall not see each other again now until we meet before God!"
43:43	Sa:Sa	S:S	A week has passed; this morning his death was in the newspaper, that is the reason of the girl's mourning!
44:44	Sa:N	S:S	Her old sweetheart is dead and has left a wife and three step-children, as the paper says; it sounds as if there is a crack, but the metal is pure.
45:45	Sa:Sa	S:S	The black bow signifies mourning, the girl's face points to the same in a still higher degree; it is preserved in the heart and will never be forgotten.
46:46	Sa:N	S:N	Delaying is not forgetting!
47:47	N:N	S:N	These are three stories you see, three leaves on the same stalk.
48:48	N:N	S:N	Do you wish for some more trefoil leaves?
49:49	N:N	S:N	In the little heartbook are many more of them.
50:50	N:N	S:N	Delaying is not forgetting!
0:0	N:N	N:N	OF course you know what is meant by a magnifying glass- one of those round spectacle-glasses that make everything look a hundred times bigger than it is?
1:1	N:N	N:N	When any one takes one of these and holds it to his eye, and looks at a drop of water from the pond yonder, he sees above a thousand wonderful creatures that are otherwise never discerned in the water.
2:2	N:N	N:N	But there they are, and it is no delusion.
3:3	N:N	N:N	It almost looks like a great plateful of spiders jumping about in a crowd.
4:4	F:N	F:N	And how fierce they are!
5:5	H:H	F:N	They tear off each other's legs. and arms and bodies, before and behind; and yet they are merry and joyful in their way.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Now, there once was an old man whom all the people called Kribble-Krabble, for that was his name.
7:7	N:N	N:N	He always wanted the best of everything, and when he could not manage it otherwise, he did it by magic.
8:8	N:N	N:N	There he sat one day, and held his magnifying-glass to his eye, and looked at a drop of water that had been taken out of a puddle by the ditch.
9:9	F:N	F:N	But what a kribbling and krabbling was there!
10:10	Su-:A	-:N	All the thousands of little creatures hopped and sprang and tugged at one another, and ate each other up.
11:11	D:A	-:A	"That is horrible!" said old Kribble-Krabble.
12:12	Su-:N	-:A	"Can one not persuade them to live in peace and quietness, so that each one may mind his own business?"
13:13	Sa:N	-:N	And he thought it over and over, but it would not do, and so he had recourse to magic.
14:14	Sa:N	-:N	"I must give them color, that they may be seen more plainly," said he; and he poured something like a little drop of red wine into the drop of water, but it was witches' blood from the lobes of the ear, the finest kind, at ninepence a drop.
15:15	H:N	H:N	And now the wonderful little creatures were pink all over.
16:16	N:N	H:+	It looked like a whole town of naked wild men.
17:17	Su+:N	H:+	"What have you there?" asked another old magician, who had no name- and that was the best thing about him.
18:18	H:N	H:+	"Yes, if you can guess what it is," said Kribble-Krabble, "I'll make you a present of it."
19:19	F:N	H:N	But it is not so easy to find out if one does not know.
20:20	N:N	H:N	And the magician who had no name looked through the magnifying-glass.
21:21	Su-:N	-:+	It looked really like a great town reflected there, in which all the people were running about without clothes.
22:22	Sa:A	-:A	It was terrible!
23:23	Su-:A	-:A	But it was still more terrible to see how one beat and pushed the other, and bit and hacked, and tugged and mauled him.
24:24	F:N	-:A	Those at the top were being pulled down, and those at the bottom were struggling upwards.
25:25	A:Su-	-:+	"Look! look! his leg is longer than mine!
26:26	A:Su-	A:A	Bah!
27:27	A:Su-	A:A	Away with it!
28:28	Sa:N	A:N	There is one who has a little bruise.
29:29	Sa:N	A:N	It hurts him, but it shall hurt him still more."
30:30	A:A	A:A	And they hacked away at him, and they pulled at him, and ate him up, because of the little bruise.
31:31	Sa:N	S:N	And there was one sitting as still as any little maiden, and wishing only for peace and quietness.
32:32	A:N	S:-	But now she had to come out, and they tugged at her, and pulled her about, and ate her up.
33:33	H:Su+	S:-	"That's funny!" said the magician.
34:34	A:N	S:N	"Yes; but what do you think it is?" said Kribble-Krabble.
35:35	N:N	S:N	"Can you find that out?"
36:36	Su+:N	S:N	"Why, one can see that easily enough," said the other.
37:37	H:N	S:+	"That's Paris, or some other great city, for they're all alike.
38:38	H:N	S:+	It's a great city!"
39:39	Su+:Su-	+:+	"It's a drop of puddle water!" said Kribble-Krabble.
0:0	N:N	N:N	FAR in the interior of the country lay an old baronial hall, and in it lived an old proprietor, who had two sons, which two young men thought themselves too clever by half.
1:1	N:N	N:N	They wanted to go out and woo the King's daughter; for the maiden in question had publicly announced that she would choose for her husband that youth who could arrange his words best.
2:2	N:N	N:N	So these two geniuses prepared themselves a full week for the wooing- this was the longest time that could be granted them; but it was enough, for they had had much preparatory information, and everybody knows how useful that is.
3:3	N:N	N:N	One of them knew the whole Latin dictionary by heart, and three whole years of the daily paper of the little town into the bargain, and so well, indeed, that he could repeat it all either backwards or forwards, just as he chose.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The other was deeply read in the corporation laws, and knew by heart what every corporation ought to know; and accordingly he thought he could talk of affairs of state, and put his spoke in the wheel in the council.
5:5	N:N	N:N	And he knew one thing more: he could embroider suspenders with roses and other flowers, and with arabesques, for he was a tasty, light-fingered fellow.
6:6	H:N	H:N	"I shall win the Princess!"
7:7	N:N	H:N	So cried both of them.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Therefore their old papa gave to each of them a handsome horse.
9:9	N:N	N:N	The youth who knew the dictionary and newspaper by heart had a black horse, and he who knew all about the corporation laws received a milk-white steed.
10:10	N:N	N:N	Then they rubbed the corners of their mouths with fish-oil, so that they might become very smooth and glib.
11:11	N:N	N:N	All the servants stood below in the courtyard, and looked on while they mounted their horses; and just by chance the third son came up.
12:12	N:N	N:N	For the proprietor had really three sons, though nobody counted the third with his brothers, because he was not so learned as they, and indeed he was generally known as "Jack the Dullard."
13:13	N:N	N:N	"Hallo!" said Jack the Dullard, "where are you going?
14:14	Su+:Su+	+:+	I declare you have put on your Sunday clothes!"
15:15	N:N	N:N	"We're going to the King's court, as suitors to the King's daughter.
16:16	N:N	N:N	Don't you know the announcement that has been made all through the country?"
17:17	N:N	N:N	And they told him all about it.
18:18	Su+:Su+	+:+	"My word!
19:19	Su+:D	+:D	I'll be in it too!" cried Jack the Dullard; and his two brothers burst out laughing at him, and rode away.
20:20	N:N	N:N	"Father, dear," said Jack, "I must have a horse too.
21:21	H:F	N:F	I do feel so desperately inclined to marry!
22:22	H:N	H:N	If she accepts me, she accepts me; and if she won't have me, I'll have her; but she shall be mine!"
23:23	D:N	D:N	"Don't talk nonsense," replied the old gentleman.
24:24	D:N	D:N	"You shall have no horse from me.
25:25	D:N	D:N	You don't know how to speak- you can't arrange your words.
26:26	N:N	D:N	Your brothers are very different fellows from you."
27:27	A:N	D:N	"Well," quoth Jack the Dullard, "If I can't have a horse, I'll take the Billy-goat, who belongs to me, and he can carry me very well!"
28:28	N:N	N:N	And so said, so done.
29:29	N:N	N:N	He mounted the Billy-goat, pressed his heels into its sides, and galloped down the high street like a hurricane.
30:30	N:H	N:H	"Hei, houp! that was a ride!
31:31	H:H	H:H	Here I come!" shouted Jack the Dullard, and he sang till his voice echoed far and wide.
32:32	N:N	N:N	But his brothers rode slowly on in advance of him.
33:33	N:N	N:N	They spoke not a word, for they were thinking about the fine extempore speeches they would have to bring out, and these had to be cleverly prepared beforehand.
34:34	H:N	H:N	"Hallo!" shouted Jack the Dullard.
35:35	H:N	H:N	"Here am I!
36:36	N:N	N:H	Look what I have found on the high road."
37:37	N:N	N:N	And he showed them what it was, and it was a dead crow.
38:38	D:Su-	D:+	"Dullard!" exclaimed the brothers, "what are you going to do with that?"
39:39	H:N	H:H	"With the crow? why, I am going to give it to the Princess."
40:40	H:D	D:D	"Yes, do so," said they; and they laughed, and rode on.
41:41	H:Su+	H:+	"Hallo, here I am again! just see what I have found now: you don't find that on the high road every day!"
42:42	N:N	N:N	And the brothers turned round to see what he could have found now.
43:43	D:N	D:D	"Dullard!" they cried, "that is only an old wooden shoe, and the upper part is missing into the bargain; are you going to give that also to the Princess?"
44:44	H:Su-	N:-	"Most certainly I shall," replied Jack the Dullard; and again the brothers laughed and rode on, and thus they got far in advance of him; but- "Hallo- hop rara!" and there was Jack the Dullard again.
45:45	H:Su+	H:+	"It is getting better and better," he cried.
46:46	H:H	H:H	"Hurrah! it is quite famous."
47:47	N:N	N:N	"Why, what have you found this time?" inquired the brothers.
48:48	H:H	H:H	"Oh," said Jack the Dullard, "I can hardly tell you.
49:49	H:N	H:H	How glad the Princess will be!"
50:50	D:N	D:D	"Bah!" said the brothers; "that is nothing but clay out of the ditch."
51:51	H:N	H:H	"Yes, certainly it is," said Jack the Dullard; "and clay of the finest sort.
52:52	H:N	H:H	See, it is so wet, it runs through one's fingers."
53:53	N:N	N:H	And he filled his pocket with the clay.
54:54	N:N	N:N	But his brothers galloped on till the sparks flew, and consequently they arrived a full hour earlier at the town gate than could Jack.
55:55	N:N	N:N	Now at the gate each suitor was provided with a number, and all were placed in rows immediately on their arrival, six in each row, and so closely packed together that they could not move their arms; and that was a prudent arrangement, for they would certainly have come to blows, had they been able, merely because one of them stood before the other.
56:56	N:F	N:F	All the inhabitants of the country round about stood in great crowds around the castle, almost under the very windows, to see the Princess receive the suitors; and as each stepped into the hall, his power of speech seemed to desert him, like the light of a candle that is blown out.
57:57	D:D	D:D	Then the Princess would say, "He is of no use!
58:58	D:D	D:D	Away with him out of the hall!"
59:59	N:N	N:F	At last the turn came for that brother who knew the dictionary by heart; but he did not know it now; he had absolutely forgotten it altogether; and the boards seemed to re-echo with his footsteps, and the ceiling of the hall was made of looking-glass, so that he saw himself standing on his head; and at the window stood three clerks and a head clerk, and every one of them was writing down every single word that was uttered, so that it might be printed in the newspapers, and sold for a penny at the street corners.
60:60	N:N	-:F	It was a terrible ordeal, and they had, moreover, made such a fire in the stove, that the room seemed quite red hot.
61:61	Su-:N	-:F	"It is dreadfully hot here!" observed the first brother.
62:62	N:N	N:N	"Yes," replied the Princess, "my father is going to roast young pullets today."
63:63	Su-:N	-:F	"Baa!" there he stood like a baa-lamb.
64:64	N:N	-:F	He had not been prepared for a speech of this kind, and had not a word to say, though he intended to say something witty.
65:65	Su-:N	-:F	"Baa!"
66:66	D:D	D:D	"He is of no use!" said the Princess.
67:67	D:D	D:D	"Away with him!"
68:68	N:N	N:N	And he was obliged to go accordingly.
69:69	N:N	N:N	And now the second brother came in.
70:70	Su-:N	-:F	"It is terribly warm here!" he observed.
71:71	N:N	N:N	"Yes, we're roasting pullets to-day," replied the Princess.
72:72	D:F	D:F	"What- what were you- were you pleased to ob-" stammered he- and all the clerks wrote down, "pleased to ob-" "He is of no use!" said the Princess.
73:73	D:D	D:D	"Away with him!"
74:74	N:N	N:N	Now came the turn of Jack the Dullard.
75:75	N:N	N:N	He rode into the hall on his goat.
76:76	Su-:N	-:N	"Well, it's most abominably hot here."
77:77	N:N	N:N	"Yes, because I'm roasting young pullets," replied the Princess.
78:78	H:H	H:H	"Ah, that's lucky!" exclaimed Jack the Dullard, "for I suppose you'll let me roast my crow at the same time?"
79:79	H:H	H:H	"With the greatest pleasure," said the Princess.
80:80	N:N	N:N	"But have you anything you can roast it in? for I have neither pot nor pan."
81:81	H:N	H:N	"Certainly I have!" said Jack.
82:82	N:N	H:N	"Here's a cooking utensil with a tin handle."
83:83	N:N	N:N	And he brought out the old wooden shoe, and put the crow into it.
84:84	H:N	H:N	"Well, that is a famous dish!" said the Princess.
85:85	N:N	N:N	"But what shall we do for sauce?"
86:86	N:N	H:N	"Oh, I have that in my pocket," said Jack; "I have so much of it that I can afford to throw some away;" and he poured some of the clay out of his pocket.
87:87	H:H	H:H	"I like that!" said the Princess.
88:88	H:N	H:H	"You can give an answer, and you have something to say for yourself, and so you shall be my husband.
89:89	N:N	N:N	But are you aware that every word we speak is being taken down, and will be published in the paper to-morrow?
90:90	N:N	N:N	Look yonder, and you will see in every window three clerks and a head clerk; and the old head clerk is the worst of all, for he can't understand anything."
91:91	H:H	H:H	But she only said this to frighten Jack the Dullard; and the clerks gave a great crow of delight, and each one spurted a blot out of his pen on to the floor.
92:92	N:N	N:N	"Oh, those are the gentlemen, are they?" said Jack; "then I will give the best I have to the head clerk."
93:93	N:N	N:N	And he turned out his pockets, and flung the wet clay full in the head clerk's face.
94:94	H:N	H:N	"That was very cleverly done," observed the Princess.
95:95	N:N	H:N	"I could not have done that; but I shall learn in time."
96:96	N:N	H:H	And accordingly Jack the Dullard was made a king, and received a crown and a wife, and sat upon a throne.
97:97	N:N	N:N	And this report we have wet from the press of the head clerk and the corporation of printers- but they are not to be depended upon in the least.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the high-road which led through a wood stood a solitary farm-house; the road, in fact, ran right through its yard.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The sun was shining and all the windows were open; within the house people were very busy.
2:2	N:N	N:N	In the yard, in an arbour formed by lilac bushes in full bloom, stood an open coffin; thither they had carried a dead man, who was to be buried that very afternoon.
3:3	N:N	S:N	Nobody shed a tear over him; his face was covered over with a white cloth, under his head they had placed a large thick book, the leaves of which consisted of folded sheets of blotting-paper, and withered flowers lay between them; it was the herbarium which he had gathered in various places and was to be buried with him, according to his own wish.
4:4	N:N	S:N	Every one of the flowers in it was connected with some chapter of his life.
5:5	Sa:N	S:N	"Who is the dead man?" we asked.
6:6	N:N	S:N	"The old student," was the reply.
7:7	Sa:Sa	S:S	"They say that he was once an energetic young man, that he studied the dead languages, and sang and even composed many songs; then something had happened to him, and in consequence of this he gave himself up to drink, body and mind.
8:8	Sa:N	S:S	When at last he had ruined his health, they brought him into the country, where someone paid for his board and residence.
9:9	A:A	S:-	He was gentle as a child as long as the sullen mood did not come over him; but when it came he was fierce, became as strong as a giant, and ran about in the wood like a chased deer.
10:10	Sa:Sa	S:S	But when we succeeded in bringing him home, and prevailed upon him to open the book with the dried-up plants in it, he would sometimes sit for a whole day looking at this or that plant, while frequently the tears rolled over his cheeks.
11:11	Sa:N	S:N	God knows what was in his mind; but he requested us to put the book into his coffin, and now he lies there.
12:12	Sa:N	S:S	In a little while the lid will be placed upon the coffin, and he will have sweet rest in the grave!"
13:13	H:N	S:H	The cloth which covered his face was lifted up; the dead man's face expressed peace- a sunbeam fell upon it.
14:14	N:N	S:N	A swallow flew with the swiftness of an arrow into the arbour, turning in its flight, and twittered over the dead man's head.
15:15	Sa:N	S:S	What a strange feeling it is- surely we all know it- to look through old letters of our young days; a different life rises up out of the past, as it were, with all its hopes and sorrows.
16:16	N:N	S:S	How many of the people with whom in those days we used to be on intimate terms appear to us as if dead, and yet they are still alive- only we have not thought of them for such a long time, whom we imagined we should retain in our memories for ever, and share every joy and sorrow with them.
17:17	N:N	S:N	The withered oak leaf in the book here recalled the friend, the schoolfellow, who was to be his friend for life.
18:18	H:N	S:H	He fixed the leaf to the student's cap in the green wood, when they vowed eternal friendship.
19:19	Sa:N	S:N	Where does he dwell now?
20:20	Sa:N	S:S	The leaf is kept, but the friendship does no longer exist.
21:21	N:N	S:N	Here is a foreign hothouse plant, too tender for the gardens of the North.
22:22	N:N	S:N	It is almost as if its leaves still smelt sweet!
23:23	N:N	S:N	She gave it to him out of her own garden- a nobleman's daughter.
24:24	Sa:N	S:S	Here is a water-lily that he had plucked himself, and watered with salt tears- a lily of sweet water.
25:25	N:N	S:S	And here is a nettle: what may its leaves tell us?
26:26	Sa:N	S:S	What might he have thought when he plucked and kept it?
27:27	N:N	S:S	Here is a little snowdrop out of the solitary wood; here is an evergreen from the flower-pot at the tavern; and here is a simple blade of grass.
28:28	Sa:N	S:S	The lilac bends its fresh fragrant flowers over the dead man's head; the swallow passes again- "twit, twit;" now the men come with hammer and nails, the lid is placed over the dead man, while his head rests on the dumb book- so long cherished, now closed for ever!
0:0	N:N	N:N	A FEW large lizards were running nimbly about in the clefts of an old tree; they could understand one another very well, for they spoke the lizard language.
1:1	A:A	A:A	"What a buzzing and a rumbling there is in the elfin hill," said one of the lizards; "I have not been able to close my eyes for two nights on account of the noise; I might just as well have had the toothache, for that always keeps me awake."
2:2	N:N	N:N	"There is something going on within there," said the other lizard; "they propped up the top of the hill with four red posts, till cock-crow this morning, so that it is thoroughly aired, and the elfin girls have learnt new dances; there is something."
3:3	N:N	N:N	"I spoke about it to an earth-worm of my acquaintance," said a third lizard; "the earth-worm had just come from the elfin hill, where he has been groping about in the earth day and night.
4:4	N:N	N:N	He has heard a great deal; although he cannot see, poor miserable creature, yet he understands very well how to wriggle and lurk about.
5:5	N:N	N:N	They expect friends in the elfin hill, grand company, too; but who they are the earth-worm would not say, or, perhaps, he really did not know.
6:6	N:N	N:N	All the will-o'-the-wisps are ordered to be there to hold a torch dance, as it is called.
7:7	N:N	N:N	The silver and gold which is plentiful in the hill will be polished and placed out in the moonlight."
8:8	N:N	N:N	"Who can the strangers be?" asked the lizards; "what can the matter be?
9:9	Su-:N	-:N	Hark, what a buzzing and humming there is!"
10:10	N:N	N:N	Just at this moment the elfin hill opened, and an old elfin maiden, hollow behind, came tripping out; she was the old elf king's housekeeper, and a distant relative of the family; therefore she wore an amber heart on the middle of her forehead.
11:11	N:N	N:N	Her feet moved very fast, "trip, trip;" good gracious, how she could trip right down to the sea to the night-raven.
12:12	N:N	N:N	"You are invited to the elf hill for this evening," said she; "but will you do me a great favor and undertake the invitations? you ought to do something, for you have no housekeeping to attend to as I have.
13:13	N:N	N:N	We are going to have some very grand people, conjurors, who have always something to say; and therefore the old elf king wishes to make a great display."
14:14	N:N	N:N	"Who is to be invited?" asked the raven.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"All the world may come to the great ball, even human beings, if they can only talk in their sleep, or do something after our fashion.
16:16	N:N	N:N	But for the feast the company must be carefully selected; we can only admit persons of high rank; I have had a dispute myself with the elf king, as he thought we could not admit ghosts.
17:17	N:N	N:N	The merman and his daughter must be invited first, although it may not be agreeable to them to remain so long on dry land, but they shall have a wet stone to sit on, or perhaps something better; so I think they will not refuse this time.
18:18	N:N	N:N	We must have all the old demons of the first class, with tails, and the hobgoblins and imps; and then I think we ought not to leave out the death-horse, or the grave-pig, or even the church dwarf, although they do belong to the clergy, and are not reckoned among our people; but that is merely their office, they are nearly related to us, and visit us very frequently."
19:19	N:N	N:N	"Croak," said the night-raven as he flew away with the invitations.
20:20	H:N	H:N	The elfin maidens we're already dancing on the elf hill, and they danced in shawls woven from moonshine and mist, which look very pretty to those who like such things.
21:21	N:N	H:N	The large hall within the elf hill was splendidly decorated; the floor had been washed with moonshine, and the walls had been rubbed with magic ointment, so that they glowed like tulip-leaves in the light.
22:22	N:N	H:N	In the kitchen were frogs roasting on the spit, and dishes preparing of snail skins, with children's fingers in them, salad of mushroom seed, hemlock, noses and marrow of mice, beer from the marsh woman's brewery, and sparkling salt-petre wine from the grave cellars.
23:23	N:N	N:N	These were all substantial food.
24:24	N:N	N:N	Rusty nails and church-window glass formed the dessert.
25:25	N:N	N:N	The old elf king had his gold crown polished up with powdered slate-pencil; it was like that used by the first form, and very difficult for an elf king to obtain.
26:26	N:N	N:H	In the bedrooms, curtains were hung up and fastened with the slime of snails; there was, indeed, a buzzing and humming everywhere.
27:27	N:N	N:N	"Now we must fumigate the place with burnt horse-hair and pig's bristles, and then I think I shall have done my part," said the elf man-servant.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"Father, dear," said the youngest daughter, "may I now hear who our high-born visitors are?"
29:29	N:N	N:N	"Well, I suppose I must tell you now," he replied; "two of my daughters must prepare themselves to be married, for the marriages certainly will take place.
30:30	N:N	N:H	The old goblin from Norway, who lives in the ancient Dovre mountains, and who possesses many castles built of rock and freestone, besides a gold mine, which is better than all, so it is thought, is coming with his two sons, who are both seeking a wife.
31:31	N:N	N:H	The old goblin is a true-hearted, honest, old Norwegian graybeard; cheerful and straightforward.
32:32	N:N	N:N	I knew him formerly, when we used to drink together to our good fellowship: he came here once to fetch his wife, she is dead now.
33:33	N:N	N:N	She was the daughter of the king of the chalk-hills at Moen.
34:34	N:N	N:N	They say he took his wife from chalk; I shall be delighted to see him again.
35:35	N:N	N:N	It is said that the boys are ill-bred, forward lads, but perhaps that is not quite correct, and they will become better as they grow older.
36:36	N:N	N:N	Let me see that you know how to teach them good manners."
37:37	N:N	N:N	"And when are they coming?" asked the daughter.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"That depends upon wind and weather," said the elf king; "they travel economically.
39:39	N:N	N:N	They will come when there is the chance of a ship.
40:40	N:N	N:N	I wanted them to come over to Sweden, but the old man was not inclined to take my advice.
41:41	N:N	N:N	He does not go forward with the times, and that I do not like."
42:42	N:N	N:N	Two will-o'-the-wisps came jumping in, one quicker than the other, so of course, one arrived first.
43:43	Su+:N	+:H	"They are coming! they are coming!" he cried.
44:44	H:N	+:H	"Give me my crown," said the elf king, "and let me stand in the moonshine."
45:45	N:N	+:H	The daughters drew on their shawls and bowed down to the ground.
46:46	N:N	N:N	There stood the old goblin from the Dovre mountains, with his crown of hardened ice and polished fir-cones.
47:47	N:N	N:N	Besides this, he wore a bear-skin, and great, warm boots, while his sons went with their throats bare and wore no braces, for they were strong men.
48:48	Su-:N	-:-	"Is that a hill?" said the youngest of the boys, pointing to the elf hill, "we should call it a hole in Norway."
49:49	A:A	-:A	"Boys," said the old man, "a hole goes in, and a hill stands out; have you no eyes in your heads?"
50:50	N:N	N:N	Another thing they wondered at was, that they were able without trouble to understand the language.
51:51	A:N	A:N	"Take care," said the old man, "or people will think you have not been well brought up."
52:52	N:N	N:N	Then they entered the elfin hill, where the select and grand company were assembled, and so quickly had they appeared that they seemed to have been blown together.
53:53	N:N	N:N	But for each guest the neatest and pleasantest arrangement had been made.
54:54	N:N	N:N	The sea folks sat at table in great water-tubs, and they said it was just like being at home.
55:55	N:N	N:N	All behaved themselves properly excepting the two young northern goblins; they put their legs on the table and thought they were all right.
56:56	A:A	A:A	"Feet off the table-cloth!" said the old goblin.
57:57	N:N	N:N	They obeyed, but not immediately.
58:58	N:N	N:N	Then they tickled the ladies who waited at table, with the fir-cones, which they carried in their pockets.
59:59	N:N	N:N	They took off their boots, that they might be more at ease, and gave them to the ladies to hold.
60:60	N:N	N:N	But their father, the old goblin, was very different; he talked pleasantly about the stately Norwegian rocks, and told fine tales of the waterfalls which dashed over them with a clattering noise like thunder or the sound of an organ, spreading their white foam on every side.
61:61	N:N	H:N	He told of the salmon that leaps in the rushing waters, while the water-god plays on his golden harp.
62:62	N:N	H:N	He spoke of the bright winter nights, when the sledge bells are ringing, and the boys run with burning torches across the smooth ice, which is so transparent that they can see the fishes dart forward beneath their feet.
63:63	N:N	+:-	He described everything so clearly, that those who listened could see it all; they could see the saw-mills going, the men-servants and the maidens singing songs, and dancing a rattling dance,- when all at once the old goblin gave the old elfin maiden a kiss, such a tremendous kiss, and yet they were almost strangers to each other.
64:64	N:N	H:N	Then the elfin girls had to dance, first in the usual way, and then with stamping feet, which they performed very well; then followed the artistic and solo dance.
65:65	N:N	+:N	Dear me, how they did throw their legs about!
66:66	N:N	+:-	No one could tell where the dance begun, or where it ended, nor indeed which were legs and which were arms, for they were all flying about together, like the shavings in a saw-pit!
67:67	N:N	N:-	And then they spun round so quickly that the death-horse and the grave-pig became sick and giddy, and were obliged to leave the table.
68:68	D:A	D:A	"Stop!" cried the old goblin," is that the only house-keeping they can perform?
69:69	D:N	D:A	Can they do anything more than dance and throw about their legs, and make a whirlwind?"
70:70	N:N	N:N	"You shall soon see what they can do," said the elf king.
71:71	N:N	N:N	And then he called his youngest daughter to him.
72:72	N:N	N:N	She was slender and fair as moonlight, and the most graceful of all the sisters.
73:73	N:N	N:N	She took a white chip in her mouth, and vanished instantly; this was her accomplishment.
74:74	D:N	D:N	But the old goblin said he should not like his wife to have such an accomplishment, and thought his boys would have the same objection.
75:75	N:N	N:N	Another daughter could make a figure like herself follow her, as if she had a shadow, which none of the goblin folk ever had.
76:76	N:N	N:-	The third was of quite a different sort; she had learnt in the brew-house of the moor witch how to lard elfin puddings with glow-worms.
77:77	H:N	H:H	"She will make a good housewife," said the old goblin, and then saluted her with his eyes instead of drinking her health; for he did not drink much.
78:78	N:N	+:-	Now came the fourth daughter, with a large harp to play upon; and when she struck the first chord, every one lifted up the left leg (for the goblins are left-legged), and at the second chord they found they must all do just what she wanted.
79:79	D:N	-:-	"That is a dangerous woman," said the old goblin; and the two sons walked out of the hill; they had had enough of it.
80:80	N:N	N:N	"And what can the next daughter do?" asked the old goblin.
81:81	N:N	N:-	"I have learnt everything that is Norwegian," said she; "and I will never marry, unless I can go to Norway."
82:82	N:N	N:-	Then her youngest sister whispered to the old goblin, "That is only because she has heard, in a Norwegian song, that when the world shall decay, the cliffs of Norway will remain standing like monuments; and she wants to get there, that she may be safe; for she is so afraid of sinking."
83:83	Su+:Su+	+:-	"Ho! ho!" said the old goblin, "is that what she means?
84:84	N:N	N:N	Well, what can the seventh and last do?"
85:85	N:N	N:-	"The sixth comes before the seventh," said the elf king, for he could reckon; but the sixth would not come forward.
86:86	N:N	N:N	"I can only tell people the truth," said she.
87:87	Sa:N	N:S	"No one cares for me, nor troubles himself about me; and I have enough to do to sew my grave clothes."
88:88	N:N	N:N	So the seventh and last came; and what could she do?
89:89	N:N	N:N	Why, she could tell stories, as many as you liked, on any subject.
90:90	N:N	N:N	"Here are my five fingers," said the old goblin; "now tell me a story for each of them."
91:91	H:H	H:H	So she took him by the wrist, and he laughed till he nearly choked; and when she came to the fourth finger, there was a gold ring on it, as if it knew there was to be a betrothal.
92:92	H:N	H:-	Then the old goblin said, "Hold fast what you have: this hand is yours; for I will have you for a wife myself."
93:93	N:N	N:N	Then the elfin girl said that the stories about the ring-finger and little Peter Playman had not yet been told.
94:94	N:N	N:N	"We will hear them in the winter," said the old goblin, "and also about the fir and the birch-trees, and the ghost stories, and of the tingling frost.
95:95	N:N	H:N	You shall tell your tales, for no one over there can do it so well; and we will sit in the stone rooms, where the pine logs are burning, and drink mead out of the golden drinking-horn of the old Norwegian kings.
96:96	N:N	H:N	The water-god has given me two; and when we sit there, Nix comes to pay us a visit, and will sing you all the songs of the mountain shepherdesses.
97:97	H:H	H:H	How merry we shall be!
98:98	N:N	H:H	The salmon will be leaping in the waterfalls, and dashing against the stone walls, but he will not be able to come in.
99:99	H:N	H:H	It is indeed very pleasant to live in old Norway.
100:100	N:N	N:N	But where are the lads?"
101:101	N:N	N:N	Where indeed were they?
102:102	N:N	N:N	Why, running about the fields, and blowing out the will-o'-the-wisps, who so good-naturedly came and brought their torches.
103:103	A:N	A:A	"What tricks have you been playing?" said the old goblin.
104:104	N:N	N:N	"I have taken a mother for you, and now you may take one of your aunts."
105:105	N:N	N:-	But the youngsters said they would rather make a speech and drink to their good fellowship; they had no wish to marry.
106:106	N:N	N:-	Then they made speeches and drank toasts, and tipped their glasses, to show that they were empty.
107:107	N:N	N:-	Then they took off their coats, and lay down on the table to sleep; for they made themselves quite at home.
108:108	H:N	H:H	But the old goblin danced about the room with his young bride, and exchanged boots with her, which is more fashionable than exchanging rings.
109:109	N:N	N:N	"The cock is crowing," said the old elfin maiden who acted as housekeeper; now we must close the shutters, that the sun may not scorch us."
110:110	N:N	N:N	Then the hill closed up.
111:111	H:H	H:H	But the lizards continued to run up and down the riven tree; and one said to the other, "Oh, how much I was pleased with the old goblin!"
112:112	N:N	H:H	"The boys pleased me better," said the earth-worm.
113:113	N:N	N:N	But then the poor miserable creature could not see.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the midst of a garden grew a rose-tree, in full blossom, and in the prettiest of all the roses lived an elf.
1:1	N:N	N:N	He was such a little wee thing, that no human eye could see him.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Behind each leaf of the rose he had a sleeping chamber.
3:3	N:N	N:N	He was as well formed and as beautiful as a little child could be, and had wings that reached from his shoulders to his feet.
4:4	N:N	H:N	Oh, what sweet fragrance there was in his chambers! and how clean and beautiful were the walls! for they were the blushing leaves of the rose.
5:5	H:N	H:H	During the whole day he enjoyed himself in the warm sunshine, flew from flower to flower, and danced on the wings of the flying butterflies.
6:6	N:N	H:N	Then he took it into his head to measure how many steps he would have to go through the roads and cross-roads that are on the leaf of a linden-tree.
7:7	N:N	N:N	What we call the veins on a leaf, he took for roads; ay, and very long roads they were for him; for before he had half finished his task, the sun went down: he had commenced his work too late.
8:8	N:N	N:N	It became very cold, the dew fell, and the wind blew; so he thought the best thing he could do would be to return home.
9:9	N:N	-:S	He hurried himself as much as he could; but he found the roses all closed up, and he could not get in; not a single rose stood open.
10:10	F:F	F:S	The poor little elf was very much frightened.
11:11	N:N	F:S	He had never before been out at night, but had always slumbered secretly behind the warm rose-leaves.
12:12	N:N	F:S	Oh, this would certainly be his death.
13:13	N:N	N:N	At the other end of the garden, he knew there was an arbor, overgrown with beautiful honey-suckles.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The blossoms looked like large painted horns; and he thought to himself, he would go and sleep in one of these till the morning.
15:15	Su-:N	-:N	He flew thither; but "hush!" two people were in the arbor,- a handsome young man and a beautiful lady.
16:16	N:N	N:N	They sat side by side, and wished that they might never be obliged to part.
17:17	N:N	H:N	They loved each other much more than the best child can love its father and mother.
18:18	Sa:N	S:S	"But we must part," said the young man; "your brother does not like our engagement, and therefore he sends me so far away on business, over mountains and seas.
19:19	Sa:N	S:S	Farewell, my sweet bride; for so you are to me."
20:20	Sa:Sa	S:S	And then they kissed each other, and the girl wept, and gave him a rose; but before she did so, she pressed a kiss upon it so fervently that the flower opened.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Then the little elf flew in, and leaned his head on the delicate, fragrant walls.
22:22	N:N	S:S	Here he could plainly hear them say, "Farewell, farewell;" and he felt that the rose had been placed on the young man's breast.
23:23	Su-:N	-:S	Oh, how his heart did beat!
24:24	N:N	-:S	The little elf could not go to sleep, it thumped so loudly.
25:25	N:N	-:S	The young man took it out as he walked through the dark wood alone, and kissed the flower so often and so violently, that the little elf was almost crushed.
26:26	N:N	N:S	He could feel through the leaf how hot the lips of the young man were, and the rose had opened, as if from the heat of the noonday sun.
27:27	N:N	N:F	There came another man, who looked gloomy and wicked.
28:28	N:N	N:F	He was the wicked brother of the beautiful maiden.
29:29	N:N	-:-	He drew out a sharp knife, and while the other was kissing the rose, the wicked man stabbed him to death; then he cut off his head, and buried it with the body in the soft earth under the linden-tree.
30:30	N:N	-:A	"Now he is gone, and will soon be forgotten," thought the wicked brother; "he will never come back again.
31:31	N:N	-:-	He was going on a long journey over mountains and seas; it is easy for a man to lose his life in such a journey.
32:32	N:N	-:-	My sister will suppose he is dead; for he cannot come back, and she will not dare to question me about him."
33:33	N:N	-:-	Then he scattered the dry leaves over the light earth with his foot, and went home through the darkness; but he went not alone, as he thought,- the little elf accompanied him.
34:34	N:N	N:-	He sat in a dry rolled-up linden-leaf, which had fallen from the tree on to the wicked man's head, as he was digging the grave.
35:35	F:F	-:-	The hat was on the head now, which made it very dark, and the little elf shuddered with fright and indignation at the wicked deed.
36:36	N:N	N:-	It was the dawn of morning before the wicked man reached home; he took off his hat, and went into his sister's room.
37:37	N:N	N:S	There lay the beautiful, blooming girl, dreaming of him whom she loved so, and who was now, she supposed, travelling far away over mountain and sea.
38:38	H:N	-:-	Her wicked brother stopped over her, and laughed hideously, as fiends only can laugh.
39:39	N:N	N:-	The dry leaf fell out of his hair upon the counterpane; but he did not notice it, and went to get a little sleep during the early morning hours.
40:40	N:N	N:-	But the elf slipped out of the withered leaf, placed himself by the ear of the sleeping girl, and told her, as in a dream, of the horrid murder; described the place where her brother had slain her lover, and buried his body; and told her of the linden-tree, in full blossom, that stood close by.
41:41	N:N	N:S	"That you may not think this is only a dream that I have told you," he said, "you will find on your bed a withered leaf."
42:42	N:N	N:S	Then she awoke, and found it there.
43:43	Sa:Sa	S:S	Oh, what bitter tears she shed! and she could not open her heart to any one for relief.
44:44	N:N	S:S	The window stood open the whole day, and the little elf could easily have reached the roses, or any of the flowers; but he could not find it in his heart to leave one so afflicted.
45:45	N:N	N:N	In the window stood a bush bearing monthly roses.
46:46	N:N	S:S	He seated himself in one of the flowers, and gazed on the poor girl.
47:47	N:H	S:-	Her brother often came into the room, and would be quite cheerful, in spite of his base conduct; so she dare not say a word to him of her heart's grief.
48:48	N:N	S:-	As soon as night came on, she slipped out of the house, and went into the wood, to the spot where the linden-tree stood; and after removing the leaves from the earth, she turned it up, and there found him who had been murdered.
49:49	Sa:Sa	S:S	Oh, how she wept and prayed that she also might die!
50:50	N:N	S:S	Gladly would she have taken the body home with her; but that was impossible; so she took up the poor head with the closed eyes, kissed the cold lips, and shook the mould out of the beautiful hair.
51:51	Sa:N	S:S	"I will keep this," said she; and as soon as she had covered the body again with the earth and leaves, she took the head and a little sprig of jasmine that bloomed in the wood, near the spot where he was buried, and carried them home with her.
52:52	N:N	S:-	As soon as she was in her room, she took the largest flower-pot she could find, and in this she placed the head of the dead man, covered it up with earth, and planted the twig of jasmine in it.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"Farewell, farewell," whispered the little elf.
54:54	N:N	S:S	He could not any longer endure to witness all this agony of grief, he therefore flew away to his own rose in the garden.
55:55	N:N	N:N	But the rose was faded; only a few dry leaves still clung to the green hedge behind it.
56:56	Sa:N	S:S	"Alas! how soon all that is good and beautiful passes away," sighed the elf.
57:57	N:N	N:N	After a while he found another rose, which became his home, for among its delicate fragrant leaves he could dwell in safety.
58:58	Sa:Sa	S:S	Every morning he flew to the window of the poor girl, and always found her weeping by the flower pot.
59:59	Sa:Sa	S:S	The bitter tears fell upon the jasmine twig, and each day, as she became paler and paler, the sprig appeared to grow greener and fresher.
60:60	N:N	S:S	One shoot after another sprouted forth, and little white buds blossomed, which the poor girl fondly kissed.
61:61	A:A	D:S	But her wicked brother scolded her, and asked her if she was going mad.
62:62	A:A	D:S	He could not imagine why she was weeping over that flower-pot, and it annoyed him.
63:63	N:N	N:S	He did not know whose closed eyes were there, nor what red lips were fading beneath the earth.
64:64	N:N	N:N	And one day she sat and leaned her head against the flower-pot, and the little elf of the rose found her asleep.
65:65	N:N	N:N	Then he seated himself by her ear, talked to her of that evening in the arbor, of the sweet perfume of the rose, and the loves of the elves.
66:66	H:N	H:H	Sweetly she dreamed, and while she dreamt, her life passed away calmly and gently, and her spirit was with him whom she loved, in heaven.
67:67	N:Sa	H:S	And the jasmine opened its large white bells, and spread forth its sweet fragrance; it had no other way of showing its grief for the dead.
68:68	N:N	N:-	But the wicked brother considered the beautiful blooming plant as his own property, left to him by his sister, and he placed it in his sleeping room, close by his bed, for it was very lovely in appearance, and the fragrance sweet and delightful.
69:69	N:N	N:N	The little elf of the rose followed it, and flew from flower to flower, telling each little spirit that dwelt in them the story of the murdered young man, whose head now formed part of the earth beneath them, and of the wicked brother and the poor sister.
70:70	N:N	N:N	"We know it," said each little spirit in the flowers, "we know it, for have we not sprung from the eyes and lips of the murdered one.
71:71	N:N	N:N	We know it, we know it," and the flowers nodded with their heads in a peculiar manner.
72:72	N:N	N:N	The elf of the rose could not understand how they could rest so quietly in the matter, so he flew to the bees, who were gathering honey, and told them of the wicked brother.
73:73	D:N	D:-	And the bees told it to their queen, who commanded that the next morning they should go and kill the murderer.
74:74	N:N	N:-	But during the night, the first after the sister's death, while the brother was sleeping in his bed, close to where he had placed the fragrant jasmine, every flower cup opened, and invisibly the little spirits stole out, armed with poisonous spears.
75:75	N:N	N:-	They placed themselves by the ear of the sleeper, told him dreadful dreams and then flew across his lips, and pricked his tongue with their poisoned spears.
76:76	H:N	+:A	"Now have we revenged the dead," said they, and flew back into the white bells of the jasmine flowers.
77:77	N:N	N:-	When the morning came, and as soon as the window was opened, the rose elf, with the queen bee, and the whole swarm of bees, rushed in to kill him.
78:78	N:N	N:-	But he was already dead.
79:79	N:N	N:-	People were standing round the bed, and saying that the scent of the jasmine had killed him.
80:80	N:N	N:N	Then the elf of the rose understood the revenge of the flowers, and explained it to the queen bee, and she, with the whole swarm, buzzed about the flower-pot.
81:81	N:N	N:-	The bees could not be driven away.
82:82	N:N	N:-	Then a man took it up to remove it, and one of the bees stung him in the hand, so that he let the flower-pot fall, and it was broken to pieces.
83:83	N:N	-:-	Then every one saw the whitened skull, and they knew the dead man in the bed was a murderer.
84:84	H:N	+:-	And the queen bee hummed in the air, and sang of the revenge of the flowers, and of the elf of the rose and said that behind the smallest leaf dwells One, who can discover evil deeds, and punish them also.
0:0	N:N	N:N	MANY, many years ago lived an emperor, who thought so much of new clothes that he spent all his money in order to obtain them; his only ambition was to be always well dressed.
1:1	N:N	N:N	He did not care for his soldiers, and the theatre did not amuse him; the only thing, in fact, he thought anything of was to drive out and show a new suit of clothes.
2:2	N:N	N:N	He had a coat for every hour of the day; and as one would say of a king "He is in his cabinet," so one could say of him, "The emperor is in his dressing-room."
3:3	N:H	H:H	The great city where he resided was very gay; every day many strangers from all parts of the globe arrived.
4:4	N:N	N:N	One day two swindlers came to this city; they made people believe that they were weavers, and declared they could manufacture the finest cloth to be imagined.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Their colours and patterns, they said, were not only exceptionally beautiful, but the clothes made of their material possessed the wonderful quality of being invisible to any man who was unfit for his office or unpardonably stupid.
6:6	Su+:N	+:N	"That must be wonderful cloth," thought the emperor.
7:7	H:N	H:N	"If I were to be dressed in a suit made of this cloth I should be able to find out which men in my empire were unfit for their places, and I could distinguish the clever from the stupid.
8:8	H:N	H:N	I must have this cloth woven for me without delay."
9:9	N:N	N:N	And he gave a large sum of money to the swindlers, in advance, that they should set to work without any loss of time.
10:10	N:N	N:N	They set up two looms, and pretended to be very hard at work, but they did nothing whatever on the looms.
11:11	N:N	N:N	They asked for the finest silk and the most precious gold-cloth; all they got they did away with, and worked at the empty looms till late at night.
12:12	N:H	N:H	"I should very much like to know how they are getting on with the cloth," thought the emperor.
13:13	N:F	N:F	But he felt rather uneasy when he remembered that he who was not fit for his office could not see it.
14:14	F:N	N:N	Personally, he was of opinion that he had nothing to fear, yet he thought it advisable to send somebody else first to see how matters stood.
15:15	N:F	N:F	Everybody in the town knew what a remarkable quality the stuff possessed, and all were anxious to see how bad or stupid their neighbours were.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"I shall send my honest old minister to the weavers," thought the emperor.
17:17	N:N	N:N	"He can judge best how the stuff looks, for he is intelligent, and nobody understands his office better than he."
18:18	N:N	N:N	The good old minister went into the room where the swindlers sat before the empty looms.
19:19	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Heaven preserve us!" he thought, and opened his eyes wide, "I cannot see anything at all," but he did not say so.
20:20	N:N	N:N	Both swindlers requested him to come near, and asked him if he did not admire the exquisite pattern and the beautiful colours, pointing to the empty looms.
21:21	Su-:N	-:N	The poor old minister tried his very best, but he could see nothing, for there was nothing to be seen.
22:22	F:F	S:F	"Oh dear," he thought, "can I be so stupid?
23:23	F:N	F:N	I should never have thought so, and nobody must know it!
24:24	F:N	F:N	Is it possible that I am not fit for my office?
25:25	F:N	F:N	No, no, I cannot say that I was unable to see the cloth."
26:26	N:N	N:N	"Now, have you got nothing to say?" said one of the swindlers, while he pretended to be busily weaving.
27:27	H:N	F:N	"Oh, it is very pretty, exceedingly beautiful," replied the old minister looking through his glasses.
28:28	H:N	F:N	"What a beautiful pattern, what brilliant colours!
29:29	H:N	F:N	I shall tell the emperor that I like the cloth very much."
30:30	H:H	H:H	"We are pleased to hear that," said the two weavers, and described to him the colours and explained the curious pattern.
31:31	N:N	N:N	The old minister listened attentively, that he might relate to the emperor what they said; and so he did.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Now the swindlers asked for more money, silk and gold-cloth, which they required for weaving.
33:33	N:N	N:N	They kept everything for themselves, and not a thread came near the loom, but they continued, as hitherto, to work at the empty looms.
34:34	N:N	N:N	Soon afterwards the emperor sent another honest courtier to the weavers to see how they were getting on, and if the cloth was nearly finished.
35:35	N:N	N:N	Like the old minister, he looked and looked but could see nothing, as there was nothing to be seen.
36:36	H:N	H:N	"Is it not a beautiful piece of cloth?" asked the two swindlers, showing and explaining the magnificent pattern, which, however, did not exist.
37:37	D:N	D:N	"I am not stupid," said the man.
38:38	Sa:N	S:N	"It is therefore my good appointment for which I am not fit.
39:39	H:N	F:N	It is very strange, but I must not let any one know it;" and he praised the cloth, which he did not see, and expressed his joy at the beautiful colours and the fine pattern.
40:40	H:N	H:N	"It is very excellent," he said to the emperor.
41:41	N:N	N:N	Everybody in the whole town talked about the precious cloth.
42:42	N:N	N:N	At last the emperor wished to see it himself, while it was still on the loom.
43:43	N:N	N:N	With a number of courtiers, including the two who had already been there, he went to the two clever swindlers, who now worked as hard as they could, but without using any thread.
44:44	H:N	H:N	"Is it not magnificent?" said the two old statesmen who had been there before.
45:45	N:N	H:N	"Your Majesty must admire the colours and the pattern."
46:46	N:N	N:N	And then they pointed to the empty looms, for they imagined the others could see the cloth.
47:47	Su-:N	-:N	"What is this?" thought the emperor, "I do not see anything at all.
48:48	Su-:F	-:F	That is terrible!
49:49	Su-:F	-:F	Am I stupid?
50:50	Su-:F	-:F	Am I unfit to be emperor?
51:51	Su-:F	F:F	That would indeed be the most dreadful thing that could happen to me."
52:52	H:N	-:N	"Really," he said, turning to the weavers, "your cloth has our most gracious approval;" and nodding contentedly he looked at the empty loom, for he did not like to say that he saw nothing.
53:53	N:N	-:N	All his attendants, who were with him, looked and looked, and although they could not see anything more than the others, they said, like the emperor, "It is very beautiful."
54:54	N:N	N:N	And all advised him to wear the new magnificent clothes at a great procession which was soon to take place.
55:55	H:N	H:N	"It is magnificent, beautiful, excellent," one heard them say; everybody seemed to be delighted, and the emperor appointed the two swindlers "Imperial Court weavers."
56:56	N:N	N:N	The whole night previous to the day on which the procession was to take place, the swindlers pretended to work, and burned more than sixteen candles.
57:57	N:N	N:N	People should see that they were busy to finish the emperor's new suit.
58:58	N:N	N:N	They pretended to take the cloth from the loom, and worked about in the air with big scissors, and sewed with needles without thread, and said at last: "The emperor's new suit is ready now."
59:59	H:N	H:N	The emperor and all his barons then came to the hall; the swindlers held their arms up as if they held something in their hands and said: "These are the trousers!"
60:60	H:N	H:N	"This is the coat!" and "Here is the cloak!" and so on.
61:61	H:N	H:N	"They are all as light as a cobweb, and one must feel as if one had nothing at all upon the body; but that is just the beauty of them."
62:62	H:N	H:N	"Indeed!" said all the courtiers; but they could not see anything, for there was nothing to be seen.
63:63	N:N	N:N	"Does it please your Majesty now to graciously undress," said the swindlers, "that we may assist your Majesty in putting on the new suit before the large looking-glass?"
64:64	N:N	N:N	The emperor undressed, and the swindlers pretended to put the new suit upon him, one piece after another; and the emperor looked at himself in the glass from every side.
65:65	H:N	H:N	"How well they look!
66:66	H:N	H:N	How well they fit!" said all.
67:67	H:N	H:N	"What a beautiful pattern!
68:68	H:N	H:N	What fine colours!
69:69	H:N	H:N	That is a magnificent suit of clothes!"
70:70	N:N	N:N	The master of the ceremonies announced that the bearers of the canopy, which was to be carried in the procession, were ready.
71:71	N:N	N:N	"I am ready," said the emperor.
72:72	H:N	H:N	"Does not my suit fit me marvellously?"
73:73	N:N	N:N	Then he turned once more to the looking-glass, that people should think he admired his garments.
74:74	N:F	H:F	The chamberlains, who were to carry the train, stretched their hands to the ground as if they lifted up a train, and pretended to hold something in their hands; they did not like people to know that they could not see anything.
75:75	N:Su+	H:+	The emperor marched in the procession under the beautiful canopy, and all who saw him in the street and out of the windows exclaimed: "Indeed, the emperor's new suit is incomparable!
76:76	H:N	H:N	What a long train he has!
77:77	H:N	H:N	How well it fits him!"
78:78	N:N	N:N	Nobody wished to let others know he saw nothing, for then he would have been unfit for his office or too stupid.
79:79	N:N	N:N	Never emperor's clothes were more admired.
80:80	D:N	-:N	"But he has nothing on at all," said a little child at last.
81:81	Su+:Su-	+:-	"Good heavens! listen to the voice of an innocent child," said the father, and one whispered to the other what the child had said.
82:82	D:Su-	D:-	"But he has nothing on at all," cried at last the whole people.
83:83	N:N	N:N	That made a deep impression upon the emperor, for it seemed to him that they were right; but he thought to himself, "Now I must bear up to the end."
84:84	N:N	N:N	And the chamberlains walked with still greater dignity, as if they carried the train which did not exist.
0:0	Sa:Sa	S:S	FAR down in the forest, where the warm sun and the fresh air made a sweet resting-place, grew a pretty little fir-tree; and yet it was not happy, it wished so much to be tall like its companions- the pines and firs which grew around it.
1:1	H:N	S:N	The sun shone, and the soft air fluttered its leaves, and the little peasant children passed by, prattling merrily, but the fir-tree heeded them not.
2:2	Sa:Sa	S:N	Sometimes the children would bring a large basket of raspberries or strawberries, wreathed on a straw, and seat themselves near the fir-tree, and say, "Is it not a pretty little tree?" which made it feel more unhappy than before.
3:3	N:N	N:N	And yet all this while the tree grew a notch or joint taller every year; for by the number of joints in the stem of a fir-tree we can discover its age.
4:4	Sa:N	S:N	Still, as it grew, it complained, "Oh! how I wish I were as tall as the other trees, then I would spread out my branches on every side, and my top would over-look the wide world.
5:5	N:N	S:N	I should have the birds building their nests on my boughs, and when the wind blew, I should bow with stately dignity like my tall companions."
6:6	Sa:N	S:N	The tree was so discontented, that it took no pleasure in the warm sunshine, the birds, or the rosy clouds that floated over it morning and evening.
7:7	Sa:F	S:N	Sometimes, in winter, when the snow lay white and glittering on the ground, a hare would come springing along, and jump right over the little tree; and then how mortified it would feel!
8:8	N:N	N:N	Two winters passed, and when the third arrived, the tree had grown so tall that the hare was obliged to run round it.
9:9	Sa:N	S:N	Yet it remained unsatisfied, and would exclaim, "Oh, if I could but keep on growing tall and old!
10:10	Sa:N	S:N	There is nothing else worth caring for in the world!"
11:11	F:N	F:N	In the autumn, as usual, the wood-cutters came and cut down several of the tallest trees, and the young fir-tree, which was now grown to its full height, shuddered as the noble trees fell to the earth with a crash.
12:12	N:N	F:S	After the branches were lopped off, the trunks looked so slender and bare, that they could scarcely be recognized.
13:13	N:N	N:S	Then they were placed upon wagons, and drawn by horses out of the forest.
14:14	N:N	N:S	"Where were they going?
15:15	N:N	N:S	What would become of them?"
16:16	N:N	N:N	The young fir-tree wished very much to know; so in the spring, when the swallows and the storks came, it asked, "Do you know where those trees were taken?
17:17	N:N	N:N	Did you meet them?"
18:18	N:N	N:N	The swallows knew nothing, but the stork, after a little reflection, nodded his head, and said, "Yes, I think I do.
19:19	N:N	N:N	I met several new ships when I flew from Egypt, and they had fine masts that smelt like fir.
20:20	N:N	N:N	I think these must have been the trees; I assure you they were stately, very stately."
21:21	Sa:N	S:N	"Oh, how I wish I were tall enough to go on the sea," said the fir-tree.
22:22	N:N	N:N	"What is the sea, and what does it look like?"
23:23	A:N	N:N	"It would take too much time to explain," said the stork, flying quickly away.
24:24	N:N	N:N	"Rejoice in thy youth," said the sunbeam; "rejoice in thy fresh growth, and the young life that is in thee."
25:25	N:N	N:N	And the wind kissed the tree, and the dew watered it with tears; but the fir-tree regarded them not.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Christmas-time drew near, and many young trees were cut down, some even smaller and younger than the fir-tree who enjoyed neither rest nor peace with longing to leave its forest home.
27:27	N:N	N:N	These young trees, which were chosen for their beauty, kept their branches, and were also laid on wagons and drawn by horses out of the forest.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"Where are they going?" asked the fir-tree.
29:29	N:N	N:N	"They are not taller than I am: indeed, one is much less; and why are the branches not cut off?
30:30	N:N	N:N	Where are they going?"
31:31	N:N	N:N	"We know, we know," sang the sparrows; "we have looked in at the windows of the houses in the town, and we know what is done with them.
32:32	H:N	H:N	They are dressed up in the most splendid manner.
33:33	N:N	H:N	We have seen them standing in the middle of a warm room, and adorned with all sorts of beautiful things,- honey cakes, gilded apples, playthings, and many hundreds of wax tapers."
34:34	N:F	N:N	"And then," asked the fir-tree, trembling through all its branches, "and then what happens?"
35:35	N:N	N:N	"We did not see any more," said the sparrows; "but this was enough for us."
36:36	N:N	N:N	"I wonder whether anything so brilliant will ever happen to me," thought the fir-tree.
37:37	N:N	N:N	"It would be much better than crossing the sea.
38:38	Sa:Sa	S:N	I long for it almost with pain.
39:39	Sa:N	S:N	Oh! when will Christmas be here?
40:40	N:N	N:N	I am now as tall and well grown as those which were taken away last year.
41:41	N:N	N:N	Oh! that I were now laid on the wagon, or standing in the warm room, with all that brightness and splendor around me!
42:42	N:N	N:N	Something better and more beautiful is to come after, or the trees would not be so decked out.
43:43	H:N	H:N	Yes, what follows will be grander and more splendid.
44:44	N:N	N:N	What can it be?
45:45	Sa:Sa	S:N	I am weary with longing.
46:46	N:N	N:N	I scarcely know how I feel."
47:47	H:H	H:N	"Rejoice with us," said the air and the sunlight.
48:48	H:N	H:N	"Enjoy thine own bright life in the fresh air."
49:49	N:N	N:N	But the tree would not rejoice, though it grew taller every day; and, winter and summer, its dark-green foliage might be seen in the forest, while passers by would say, "What a beautiful tree!"
50:50	N:N	N:N	A short time before Christmas, the discontented fir-tree was the first to fall.
51:51	Sa:Sa	S:S	As the axe cut through the stem, and divided the pith, the tree fell with a groan to the earth, conscious of pain and faintness, and forgetting all its anticipations of happiness, in sorrow at leaving its home in the forest.
52:52	Sa:N	S:S	It knew that it should never again see its dear old companions, the trees, nor the little bushes and many-colored flowers that had grown by its side; perhaps not even the birds.
53:53	N:N	S:S	Neither was the journey at all pleasant.
54:54	N:N	N:S	The tree first recovered itself while being unpacked in the courtyard of a house, with several other trees; and it heard a man say, "We only want one, and this is the prettiest."
55:55	N:N	N:N	Then came two servants in grand livery, and carried the fir-tree into a large and beautiful apartment.
56:56	N:N	N:N	On the walls hung pictures, and near the great stove stood great china vases, with lions on the lids.
57:57	N:N	N:N	There were rocking chairs, silken sofas, large tables, covered with pictures, books, and playthings, worth a great deal of money,- at least, the children said so.
58:58	N:N	N:N	Then the fir-tree was placed in a large tub, full of sand; but green baize hung all around it, so that no one could see it was a tub, and it stood on a very handsome carpet.
59:59	F:F	F:F	How the fir-tree trembled!
60:60	F:N	F:F	"What was going to happen to him now?"
61:61	N:N	N:N	Some young ladies came, and the servants helped them to adorn the tree.
62:62	N:N	N:N	On one branch they hung little bags cut out of colored paper, and each bag was filled with sweetmeats; from other branches hung gilded apples and walnuts, as if they had grown there; and above, and all round, were hundreds of red, blue, and white tapers, which were fastened on the branches.
63:63	N:N	N:N	Dolls, exactly like real babies, were placed under the green leaves,- the tree had never seen such things before,- and at the very top was fastened a glittering star, made of tinsel.
64:64	H:N	H:H	Oh, it was very beautiful!
65:65	H:N	H:H	"This evening," they all exclaimed, "how bright it will be!"
66:66	H:N	H:H	"Oh, that the evening were come," thought the tree, "and the tapers lighted! then I shall know what else is going to happen.
67:67	N:N	H:N	Will the trees of the forest come to see me?
68:68	N:N	H:N	I wonder if the sparrows will peep in at the windows as they fly? shall I grow faster here, and keep on all these ornaments summer and winter?"
69:69	N:N	N:N	But guessing was of very little use; it made his bark ache, and this pain is as bad for a slender fir-tree, as headache is for us.
70:70	N:N	H:N	At last the tapers were lighted, and then what a glistening blaze of light the tree presented!
71:71	H:H	H:H	It trembled so with joy in all its branches, that one of the candles fell among the green leaves and burnt some of them.
72:72	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Help! help!" exclaimed the young ladies, but there was no danger, for they quickly extinguished the fire.
73:73	F:F	N:N	After this, the tree tried not to tremble at all, though the fire frightened him; he was so anxious not to hurt any of the beautiful ornaments, even while their brilliancy dazzled him.
74:74	N:N	N:N	And now the folding doors were thrown open, and a troop of children rushed in as if they intended to upset the tree; they were followed more silently by their elders.
75:75	H:H	H:H	For a moment the little ones stood silent with astonishment, and then they shouted for joy, till the room rang, and they danced merrily round the tree, while one present after another was taken from it.
76:76	N:N	N:N	"What are they doing?
77:77	N:N	N:N	What will happen next?" thought the fir.
78:78	N:N	N:N	At last the candles burnt down to the branches and were put out.
79:79	N:N	N:N	Then the children received permission to plunder the tree.
80:80	N:N	-:-	Oh, how they rushed upon it, till the branches cracked, and had it not been fastened with the glistening star to the ceiling, it must have been thrown down.
81:81	H:N	H:N	The children then danced about with their pretty toys, and no one noticed the tree, except the children's maid who came and peeped among the branches to see if an apple or a fig had been forgotten.
82:82	H:N	H:N	"A story, a story," cried the children, pulling a little fat man towards the tree.
83:83	N:N	H:N	"Now we shall be in the green shade," said the man, as he seated himself under it, "and the tree will have the pleasure of hearing also, but I shall only relate one story; what shall it be?
84:84	N:N	N:N	Ivede-Avede, or Humpty Dumpty, who fell down stairs, but soon got up again, and at last married a princess."
85:85	N:N	H:N	"Ivede-Avede," cried some.
86:86	N:N	H:N	"Humpty Dumpty," cried others, and there was a fine shouting and crying out.
87:87	N:N	N:N	But the fir-tree remained quite still, and thought to himself, "Shall I have anything to do with all this?" but he had already amused them as much as they wished.
88:88	N:N	N:N	Then the old man told them the story of Humpty Dumpty, how he fell down stairs, and was raised up again, and married a princess.
89:89	N:H	N:H	And the children clapped their hands and cried, "Tell another, tell another," for they wanted to hear the story of "Ivede-Avede;" but they only had "Humpty Dumpty."
90:90	N:N	N:N	After this the fir-tree became quite silent and thoughtful; never had the birds in the forest told such tales as "Humpty Dumpty," who fell down stairs, and yet married a princess.
91:91	H:N	H:N	"Ah! yes, so it happens in the world," thought the fir-tree; he believed it all, because it was related by such a nice man.
92:92	H:H	H:N	"Ah! well," he thought, "who knows? perhaps I may fall down too, and marry a princess;" and he looked forward joyfully to the next evening, expecting to be again decked out with lights and playthings, gold and fruit.
93:93	N:N	H:H	"To-morrow I will not tremble," thought he; "I will enjoy all my splendor, and I shall hear the story of Humpty Dumpty again, and perhaps Ivede-Avede."
94:94	N:N	N:H	And the tree remained quiet and thoughtful all night.
95:95	N:N	N:N	In the morning the servants and the housemaid came in.
96:96	H:N	H:H	"Now," thought the fir, "all my splendor is going to begin again."
97:97	N:N	N:S	But they dragged him out of the room and up stairs to the garret, and threw him on the floor, in a dark corner, where no daylight shone, and there they left him.
98:98	Su-:N	-:-	"What does this mean?" thought the tree, "what am I to do here?
99:99	Su-:N	-:-	I can hear nothing in a place like this," and he had time enough to think, for days and nights passed and no one came near him, and when at last somebody did come, it was only to put away large boxes in a corner.
100:100	N:N	-:S	So the tree was completely hidden from sight as if it had never existed.
101:101	N:N	-:S	"It is winter now," thought the tree, "the ground is hard and covered with snow, so that people cannot plant me.
102:102	N:N	N:N	I shall be sheltered here, I dare say, until spring comes.
103:103	N:N	+:N	How thoughtful and kind everybody is to me!
104:104	Sa:N	S:S	Still I wish this place were not so dark, as well as lonely, with not even a little hare to look at.
105:105	N:N	S:S	How pleasant it was out in the forest while the snow lay on the ground, when the hare would run by, yes, and jump over me too, although I did not like it then.
106:106	Sa:N	S:S	Oh! it is terrible lonely here."
107:107	N:N	N:N	"Squeak, squeak," said a little mouse, creeping cautiously towards the tree; then came another; and they both sniffed at the fir-tree and crept between the branches.
108:108	N:N	N:N	"Oh, it is very cold," said the little mouse, "or else we should be so comfortable here, shouldn't we, you old fir-tree?"
109:109	N:N	N:N	"I am not old," said the fir-tree, "there are many who are older than I am."
110:110	N:N	N:N	"Where do you come from? and what do you know?" asked the mice, who were full of curiosity.
111:111	N:N	N:N	"Have you seen the most beautiful places in the world, and can you tell us all about them? and have you been in the storeroom, where cheeses lie on the shelf, and hams hang from the ceiling?
112:112	N:N	N:N	One can run about on tallow candles there, and go in thin and come out fat."
113:113	N:N	N:N	"I know nothing of that place," said the fir-tree, "but I know the wood where the sun shines and the birds sing."
114:114	N:N	N:N	And then the tree told the little mice all about its youth.
115:115	N:N	N:N	They had never heard such an account in their lives; and after they had listened to it attentively, they said, "What a number of things you have seen? you must have been very happy."
116:116	H:H	H:N	"Happy!" exclaimed the fir-tree, and then as he reflected upon what he had been telling them, he said, "Ah, yes! after all those were happy days."
117:117	H:N	H:N	But when he went on and related all about Christmas-eve, and how he had been dressed up with cakes and lights, the mice said, "How happy you must have been, you old fir-tree."
118:118	N:N	N:N	"I am not old at all," replied the tree, "I only came from the forest this winter, I am now checked in my growth."
119:119	H:N	H:N	"What splendid stories you can relate," said the little mice.
120:120	N:N	H:N	And the next night four other mice came with them to hear what the tree had to tell.
121:121	H:N	H:N	The more he talked the more he remembered, and then he thought to himself, "Those were happy days, but they may come again.
122:122	N:N	H:N	Humpty Dumpty fell down stairs, and yet he married the princess; perhaps I may marry a princess too."
123:123	H:N	H:N	And the fir-tree thought of the pretty little birch-tree that grew in the forest, which was to him a real beautiful princess.
124:124	N:N	N:N	"Who is Humpty Dumpty?" asked the little mice.
125:125	H:H	H:H	And then the tree related the whole story; he could remember every single word, and the little mice was so delighted with it, that they were ready to jump to the top of the tree.
126:126	D:N	N:N	The next night a great many more mice made their appearance, and on Sunday two rats came with them; but they said, it was not a pretty story at all, and the little mice were very sorry, for it made them also think less of it.
127:127	D:N	D:N	"Do you know only one story?" asked the rats.
128:128	N:N	N:N	"Only one," replied the fir-tree; "I heard it on the happiest evening of my life; but I did not know I was so happy at the time."
129:129	D:N	D:-	"We think it is a very miserable story," said the rats.
130:130	N:N	D:N	"Don't you know any story about bacon, or tallow in the storeroom."
131:131	N:N	N:N	"No," replied the tree.
132:132	N:N	N:N	"Many thanks to you then," replied the rats, and they marched off.
133:133	N:N	N:N	The little mice also kept away after this, and the tree sighed, and said, "It was very pleasant when the merry little mice sat round me and listened while I talked.
134:134	N:N	N:S	Now that is all passed too.
135:135	N:N	N:N	However, I shall consider myself happy when some one comes to take me out of this place."
136:136	N:N	N:N	But would this ever happen?
137:137	N:N	N:N	Yes; one morning people came to clear out the garret, the boxes were packed away, and the tree was pulled out of the corner, and thrown roughly on the garret floor; then the servant dragged it out upon the staircase where the daylight shone.
138:138	H:H	H:H	"Now life is beginning again," said the tree, rejoicing in the sunshine and fresh air.
139:139	N:N	N:N	Then it was carried down stairs and taken into the courtyard so quickly, that it forgot to think of itself, and could only look about, there was so much to be seen.
140:140	N:N	N:N	The court was close to a garden, where everything looked blooming.
141:141	N:N	H:N	Fresh and fragrant roses hung over the little palings.
142:142	N:N	H:N	The linden-trees were in blossom; while the swallows flew here and there, crying, "Twit, twit, twit, my mate is coming,"- but it was not the fir-tree they meant.
143:143	H:H	H:N	"Now I shall live," cried the tree, joyfully spreading out its branches; but alas! they were all withered and yellow, and it lay in a corner amongst weeds and nettles.
144:144	N:N	N:S	The star of gold paper still stuck in the top of the tree and glittered in the sunshine.
145:145	H:N	H:S	In the same courtyard two of the merry children were playing who had danced round the tree at Christmas, and had been so happy.
146:146	N:N	N:S	The youngest saw the gilded star, and ran and pulled it off the tree.
147:147	D:N	D:S	"Look what is sticking to the ugly old fir-tree," said the child, treading on the branches till they crackled under his boots.
148:148	N:N	S:S	And the tree saw all the fresh bright flowers in the garden, and then looked at itself, and wished it had remained in the dark corner of the garret.
149:149	N:N	S:N	It thought of its fresh youth in the forest, of the merry Christmas evening, and of the little mice who had listened to the story of "Humpty Dumpty."
150:150	Sa:N	S:S	"Past! past!" said the old tree; "Oh, had I but enjoyed myself while I could have done so! but now it is too late."
151:151	N:N	N:S	Then a lad came and chopped the tree into small pieces, till a large bundle lay in a heap on the ground.
152:152	Sa:Sa	S:S	The pieces were placed in a fire under the copper, and they quickly blazed up brightly, while the tree sighed so deeply that each sigh was like a pistol-shot.
153:153	N:N	N:S	Then the children, who were at play, came and seated themselves in front of the fire, and looked at it and cried, "Pop, pop."
154:154	N:N	N:S	But at each "pop," which was a deep sigh, the tree was thinking of a summer day in the forest; and of Christmas evening, and of "Humpty Dumpty," the only story it had ever heard or knew how to relate, till at last it was consumed.
155:155	N:N	N:S	The boys still played in the garden, and the youngest wore the golden star on his breast, with which the tree had been adorned during the happiest evening of its existence.
156:156	N:N	N:S	Now all was past; the tree's life was past, and the story also,- for all stories must come to an end at last.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE flax was in full bloom; it had pretty little blue flowers as delicate as the wings of a moth, or even more so.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The sun shone, and the showers watered it; and this was just as good for the flax as it is for little children to be washed and then kissed by their mother.
2:2	N:N	N:N	They look much prettier for it, and so did the flax.
3:3	H:N	H:N	"People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen.
4:4	H:H	H:H	How fortunate I am; it makes me so happy, it is such a pleasant thing to know that something can be made of me.
5:5	H:H	H:H	How the sunshine cheers me, and how sweet and refreshing is the rain; my happiness overpowers me, no one in the world can feel happier than I am."
6:6	Sa:Sa	S:N	"Ah, yes, no doubt," said the fern, "but you do not know the world yet as well as I do, for my sticks are knotty;" and then it sung quite mournfully-
7:7	Sa:N	S:N	"Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lurre: The song is ended."
8:8	N:N	N:N	"No, it is not ended," said the flax.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"To-morrow the sun will shine, or the rain descend.
10:10	N:N	N:N	I feel that I am growing.
11:11	N:N	N:N	I feel that I am in full blossom.
12:12	H:H	H:H	I am the happiest of all creatures."
13:13	Su-:Su-	-:-	Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax, and pulled it up by the roots; this was painful; then it was laid in water as if they intended to drown it; and, after that, placed near a fire as if it were to be roasted; all this was very shocking.
14:14	N:N	N:-	"We cannot expect to be happy always," said the flax; "by experiencing evil as well as good, we become wise."
15:15	N:N	N:-	And certainly there was plenty of evil in store for the flax.
16:16	N:N	-:-	It was steeped, and roasted, and broken, and combed; indeed, it scarcely knew what was done to it.
17:17	N:N	N:-	At last it was put on the spinning wheel.
18:18	N:N	N:-	"Whirr, whirr," went the wheel so quickly that the flax could not collect its thoughts.
19:19	N:H	N:N	"Well, I have been very happy," he thought in the midst of his pain, "and must be contented with the past;" and contented he remained till he was put on the loom, and became a beautiful piece of white linen.
20:20	N:N	N:N	All the flax, even to the last stalk, was used in making this one piece.
21:21	H:H	H:H	"Well, this is quite wonderful; I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune.
22:22	N:N	N:N	The fern was not wrong with its song of
23:23	N:N	N:H	'Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lurre.'
24:24	N:N	N:H	But the song is not ended yet, I am sure; it is only just beginning.
25:25	H:H	H:H	How wonderful it is, that after all I have suffered, I am made something of at last; I am the luckiest person in the world- so strong and fine; and how white, and what a length!
26:26	N:N	H:N	This is something different to being a mere plant and bearing flowers.
27:27	H:N	H:N	Then I had no attention, nor any water unless it rained; now, I am watched and taken care of.
28:28	N:N	H:N	Every morning the maid turns me over, and I have a shower-bath from the watering-pot every evening.
29:29	N:N	H:H	Yes, and the clergyman's wife noticed me, and said I was the best piece of linen in the whole parish.
30:30	H:H	H:H	I cannot be happier than I am now."
31:31	N:N	N:-	After some time, the linen was taken into the house, placed under the scissors, and cut and torn into pieces, and then pricked with needles.
32:32	N:N	N:-	This certainly was not pleasant; but at last it was made into twelve garments of that kind which people do not like to name, and yet everybody should wear one.
33:33	N:N	N:N	"See, now, then," said the flax; "I have become something of importance.
34:34	H:H	H:H	This was my destiny; it is quite a blessing.
35:35	H:H	H:H	Now I shall be of some use in the world, as everyone ought to be; it is the only way to be happy.
36:36	N:N	N:H	I am now divided into twelve pieces, and yet we are all one and the same in the whole dozen.
37:37	H:N	H:H	It is most extraordinary good fortune."
38:38	N:N	N:N	Years passed away, and at last the linen was so worn it could scarcely hold together.
39:39	N:N	N:S	"It must end very soon," said the pieces to each other; "we would gladly have held together a little longer, but it is useless to expect impossibilities."
40:40	N:N	N:N	And at length they fell into rags and tatters, and thought it was all over with them, for they were torn to shreds, and steeped in water, and made into a pulp, and dried, and they knew not what besides, till all at once they found themselves beautiful white paper.
41:41	Su+:H	H:H	"Well, now, this is a surprise; a glorious surprise too," said the paper.
42:42	H:N	H:H	"I am now finer than ever, and I shall be written upon, and who can tell what fine things I may have written upon me.
43:43	H:Su+	H:+	This is wonderful luck!"
44:44	N:N	H:H	And sure enough the most beautiful stories and poetry were written upon it, and only once was there a blot, which was very fortunate.
45:45	N:N	H:H	Then people heard the stories and poetry read, and it made them wiser and better; for all that was written had a good and sensible meaning, and a great blessing was contained in the words on this paper.
46:46	H:N	H:N	"I never imagined anything like this," said the paper, "when I was only a little blue flower, growing in the fields.
47:47	H:N	H:N	How could I fancy that I should ever be the means of bringing knowledge and joy to man?
48:48	N:N	H:N	I cannot understand it myself, and yet it is really so.
49:49	N:N	H:H	Heaven knows that I have done nothing myself, but what I was obliged to do with my weak powers for my own preservation; and yet I have been promoted from one joy and honor to another.
50:50	H:N	H:H	Each time I think that the song is ended; and then something higher and better begins for me.
51:51	N:N	N:H	I suppose now I shall be sent on my travels about the world, so that people may read me.
52:52	N:N	N:H	It cannot be otherwise; indeed, it is more than probable; for I have more splendid thoughts written upon me, than I had pretty flowers in olden times.
53:53	H:H	H:H	I am happier than ever."
54:54	N:N	N:N	But the paper did not go on its travels; it was sent to the printer, and all the words written upon it were set up in type, to make a book, or rather, many hundreds of books; for so many more persons could derive pleasure and profit from a printed book, than from the written paper; and if the paper had been sent around the world, it would have been worn out before it had got half through its journey.
55:55	N:N	N:N	"This is certainly the wisest plan," said the written paper; "I really did not think of that.
56:56	N:N	N:H	I shall remain at home, and be held in honor, like some old grandfather, as I really am to all these new books.
57:57	N:N	N:N	They will do some good.
58:58	N:N	N:N	I could not have wandered about as they do.
59:59	N:N	N:N	Yet he who wrote all this has looked at me, as every word flowed from his pen upon my surface.
60:60	H:Su+	H:H	I am the most honored of all."
61:61	N:N	N:N	Then the paper was tied in a bundle with other papers, and thrown into a tub that stood in the washhouse.
62:62	N:N	N:N	"After work, it is well to rest," said the paper, "and a very good opportunity to collect one's thoughts.
63:63	N:N	N:H	Now I am able, for the first time, to think of my real condition; and to know one's self is true progress.
64:64	N:N	N:N	What will be done with me now, I wonder?
65:65	N:N	N:N	No doubt I shall still go forward.
66:66	N:N	N:N	I have always progressed hitherto, as I know quite well."
67:67	N:N	N:-	Now it happened one day that all the paper in the tub was taken out, and laid on the hearth to be burnt.
68:68	N:N	N:-	People said it could not be sold at the shop, to wrap up butter and sugar, because it had been written upon.
69:69	N:N	N:-	The children in the house stood round the stove; for they wanted to see the paper burn, because it flamed up so prettily, and afterwards, among the ashes, so many red sparks could be seen running one after the other, here and there, as quick as the wind.
70:70	N:N	N:-	They called it seeing the children come out of school, and the last spark was the schoolmaster.
71:71	N:N	N:N	They often thought the last spark had come; and one would cry, "There goes the schoolmaster;" but the next moment another spark would appear, shining so beautifully.
72:72	N:N	N:N	How they would like to know where the sparks all went to!
73:73	N:N	N:N	Perhaps we shall find out some day, but we don't know now.
74:74	N:N	N:N	The whole bundle of paper had been placed on the fire, and was soon alight.
75:75	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Ugh," cried the paper, as it burst into a bright flame; "ugh."
76:76	N:N	-:N	It was certainly not very pleasant to be burning; but when the whole was wrapped in flames, the flames mounted up into the air, higher than the flax had ever been able to raise its little blue flower, and they glistened as the white linen never could have glistened.
77:77	N:N	N:N	All the written letters became quite red in a moment, and all the words and thoughts turned to fire.
78:78	N:N	N:N	"Now I am mounting straight up to the sun," said a voice in the flames; and it was as if a thousand voices echoed the words; and the flames darted up through the chimney, and went out at the top.
79:79	N:N	N:N	Then a number of tiny beings, as many in number as the flowers on the flax had been, and invisible to mortal eyes, floated above them.
80:80	N:N	H:N	They were even lighter and more delicate than the flowers from which they were born; and as the flames were extinguished, and nothing remained of the paper but black ashes, these little beings danced upon it; and whenever they touched it, bright red sparks appeared.
81:81	N:N	H:N	"The children are all out of school, and the schoolmaster was the last of all," said the children.
82:82	N:N	H:H	It was good fun, and they sang over the dead ashes,-
83:83	N:N	N:H	"Snip, snap, snurre, Basse lure: The song is ended."
84:84	N:N	H:H	But the little invisible beings said, "The song is never ended; the most beautiful is yet to come."
85:85	N:N	N:H	But the children could neither hear nor understand this, nor should they; for children must not know everything.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a merchant who was so rich that he could have paved the whole street with gold, and would even then have had enough for a small alley.
1:1	N:N	N:N	But he did not do so; he knew the value of money better than to use it in this way.
2:2	N:N	N:N	So clever was he, that every shilling he put out brought him a crown; and so he continued till he died.
3:3	H:N	H:-	His son inherited his wealth, and he lived a merry life with it; he went to a masquerade every night, made kites out of five pound notes, and threw pieces of gold into the sea instead of stones, making ducks and drakes of them.
4:4	N:N	N:-	In this manner he soon lost all his money.
5:5	N:N	N:-	At last he had nothing left but a pair of slippers, an old dressing-gown, and four shillings.
6:6	N:N	N:N	And now all his friends deserted him, they could not walk with him in the streets; but one of them, who was very good-natured, sent him an old trunk with this message, "Pack up!"
7:7	N:N	N:N	"Yes," he said, "it is all very well to say 'pack up,' "but he had nothing left to pack up, therefore he seated himself in the trunk.
8:8	N:N	N:+	It was a very wonderful trunk; no sooner did any one press on the lock than the trunk could fly.
9:9	N:N	N:+	He shut the lid and pressed the lock, when away flew the trunk up the chimney with the merchant's son in it, right up into the clouds.
10:10	F:F	F:+	Whenever the bottom of the trunk cracked, he was in a great fright, for if the trunk fell to pieces he would have made a tremendous somerset over the trees.
11:11	N:N	N:+	However, he got safely in his trunk to the land of Turkey.
12:12	N:N	N:N	He hid the trunk in the wood under some dry leaves, and then went into the town: he could so this very well, for the Turks always go about dressed in dressing-gowns and slippers, as he was himself.
13:13	N:N	N:N	He happened to meet a nurse with a little child.
14:14	N:N	N:N	"I say, you Turkish nurse," cried he, "what castle is that near the town, with the windows placed so high?"
15:15	N:N	N:N	"The king's daughter lives there," she replied; "it has been prophesied that she will be very unhappy about a lover, and therefore no one is allowed to visit her, unless the king and queen are present."
16:16	N:N	N:N	"Thank you," said the merchant's son.
17:17	N:N	N:-	So he went back to the wood, seated himself in his trunk, flew up to the roof of the castle, and crept through the window into the princess's room.
18:18	Su+:N	+:-	She lay on the sofa asleep, and she was so beautiful that the merchant's son could not help kissing her.
19:19	H:F	+:-	Then she awoke, and was very much frightened; but he told her he was a Turkish angel, who had come down through the air to see her, which pleased her very much.
20:20	N:N	H:N	He sat down by her side and talked to her: he said her eyes were like beautiful dark lakes, in which the thoughts swam about like little mermaids, and he told her that her forehead was a snowy mountain, which contained splendid halls full of pictures.
21:21	N:N	H:N	And then he related to her about the stork who brings the beautiful children from the rivers.
22:22	N:N	H:+	These were delightful stories; and when he asked the princess if she would marry him, she consented immediately.
23:23	N:N	N:N	"But you must come on Saturday," she said; "for then the king and queen will take tea with me.
24:24	N:N	H:+	They will be very proud when they find that I am going to marry a Turkish angel; but you must think of some very pretty stories to tell them, for my parents like to hear stories better than anything.
25:25	N:N	N:+	My mother prefers one that is deep and moral; but my father likes something funny, to make him laugh."
26:26	N:N	N:+	"Very well," he replied; "I shall bring you no other marriage portion than a story," and so they parted.
27:27	N:N	N:N	But the princess gave him a sword which was studded with gold coins, and these he could use.
28:28	N:N	N:N	Then he flew away to the town and bought a new dressing-gown, and afterwards returned to the wood, where he composed a story, so as to be ready for Saturday, which was no easy matter.
29:29	N:N	N:N	It was ready however by Saturday, when he went to see the princess.
30:30	N:N	N:N	The king, and queen, and the whole court, were at tea with the princess; and he was received with great politeness.
31:31	N:N	N:N	"Will you tell us a story?" said the queen,- "one that is instructive and full of deep learning."
32:32	N:N	N:N	"Yes, but with something in it to laugh at," said the king.
33:33	N:N	N:N	"Certainly," he replied, and commenced at once, asking them to listen attentively.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"There was once a bundle of matches that were exceedingly proud of their high descent.
35:35	N:N	N:N	Their genealogical tree, that is, a large pine-tree from which they had been cut, was at one time a large, old tree in the wood.
36:36	N:N	N:N	The matches now lay between a tinder-box and an old iron saucepan, and were talking about their youthful days.
37:37	H:N	H:N	'Ah! then we grew on the green boughs, and were as green as they; every morning and evening we were fed with diamond drops of dew.
38:38	H:H	H:H	Whenever the sun shone, we felt his warm rays, and the little birds would relate stories to us as they sung.
39:39	N:N	H:H	We knew that we were rich, for the other trees only wore their green dress in summer, but our family were able to array themselves in green, summer and winter.
40:40	Sa:N	N:N	But the wood-cutter came, like a great revolution, and our family fell under the axe.
41:41	N:N	N:N	The head of the house obtained a situation as mainmast in a very fine ship, and can sail round the world when he will.
42:42	N:N	N:N	The other branches of the family were taken to different places, and our office now is to kindle a light for common people.
43:43	N:N	N:N	This is how such high-born people as we came to be in a kitchen.'
44:44	N:N	N:N	"'Mine has been a very different fate,' said the iron pot, which stood by the matches; 'from my first entrance into the world I have been used to cooking and scouring.
45:45	N:N	N:N	I am the first in this house, when anything solid or useful is required.
46:46	N:N	N:N	My only pleasure is to be made clean and shining after dinner, and to sit in my place and have a little sensible conversation with my neighbors.
47:47	N:N	N:N	All of us, excepting the water-bucket, which is sometimes taken into the courtyard, live here together within these four walls.
48:48	N:N	N:N	We get our news from the market-basket, but he sometimes tells us very unpleasant things about the people and the government.
49:49	N:N	N:N	Yes, and one day an old pot was so alarmed, that he fell down and was broken to pieces.
50:50	N:N	N:N	He was a liberal, I can tell you.'
51:51	D:Su+	D:+	"'You are talking too much,' said the tinder-box, and the steel struck against the flint till some sparks flew out, crying, 'We want a merry evening, don't we?'
52:52	N:N	N:N	"'Yes, of course,' said the matches, 'let us talk about those who are the highest born.'
53:53	D:N	D:N	"'No, I don't like to be always talking of what we are,' remarked the saucepan; 'let us think of some other amusement; I will begin.
54:54	N:N	N:N	We will tell something that has happened to ourselves; that will be very easy, and interesting as well.
55:55	H:N	H:H	On the Baltic Sea, near the Danish shore'- "'What a pretty commencement!' said the plates; 'we shall all like that story, I am sure.'
56:56	Su+:N	H:H	"'Yes; well in my youth, I lived in a quiet family, where the furniture was polished, the floors scoured, and clean curtains put up every fortnight,' "'What an interesting way you have of relating a story,' said the carpet-broom; 'it is easy to perceive that you have been a great deal in women's society, there is something so pure runs through what you say.'
57:57	H:H	H:H	"'That is quite true,' said the water-bucket; and he made a spring with joy, and splashed some water on the floor.
58:58	N:N	H:N	"Then the saucepan went on with his story, and the end was as good as the beginning.
59:59	H:H	H:H	"The plates rattled with pleasure, and the carpet-broom brought some green parsley out of the dust-hole and crowned the saucepan, for he knew it would vex the others; and he thought, 'If I crown him to-day he will crown me to-morrow.'
60:60	H:N	H:H	"'Now, let us have a dance,' said the fire-tongs; and then how they danced and stuck up one leg in the air.
61:61	Su+:H	+:H	The chair-cushion in the corner burst with laughter when she saw it.
62:62	N:N	H:H	"'Shall I be crowned now?' asked the fire-tongs; so the broom found another wreath for the tongs.
63:63	D:N	D:H	"'They were only common people after all,' thought the matches.
64:64	N:N	N:H	The tea-urn was now asked to sing, but she said she had a cold, and could not sing without boiling heat.
65:65	N:N	N:N	They all thought this was affectation, and because she did not wish to sing excepting in the parlor, when on the table with the grand people.
66:66	N:N	N:N	"In the window sat an old quill-pen, with which the maid generally wrote.
67:67	H:N	N:N	There was nothing remarkable about the pen, excepting that it had been dipped too deeply in the ink, but it was proud of that.
68:68	N:N	N:N	"'If the tea-urn won't sing,' said the pen, 'she can leave it alone; there is a nightingale in a cage who can sing; she has not been taught much, certainly, but we need not say anything this evening about that.'
69:69	D:N	D:N	"'I think it highly improper,' said the tea-kettle, who was kitchen singer, and half-brother to the tea-urn, 'that a rich foreign bird should be listened to here.
70:70	N:N	N:N	Is it patriotic?
71:71	N:N	N:N	Let the market-basket decide what is right.'
72:72	A:A	A:N	"'I certainly am vexed,' said the basket; 'inwardly vexed, more than any one can imagine.
73:73	N:N	N:N	Are we spending the evening properly?
74:74	N:N	N:N	Would it not be more sensible to put the house in order?
75:75	N:N	N:N	If each were in his own place I would lead a game; this would be quite another thing.'
76:76	N:N	N:N	"'Let us act a play,' said they all.
77:77	N:N	N:N	At the same moment the door opened, and the maid came in.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Then not one stirred; they all remained quite still; yet, at the same time, there was not a single pot amongst them who had not a high opinion of himself, and of what he could do if he chose.
79:79	D:N	D:N	"'Yes, if we had chosen,' they each thought, 'we might have spent a very pleasant evening.'
80:80	N:N	N:-	"The maid took the matches and lighted them; dear me, how they sputtered and blazed up!
81:81	H:N	H:N	"'Now then,' they thought, 'every one will see that we are the first.
82:82	H:N	H:H	How we shine; what a light we give!'
83:83	N:N	N:H	Even while they spoke their light went out.
84:84	H:N	H:H	"What a capital story," said the queen, "I feel as if I were really in the kitchen, and could see the matches; yes, you shall marry our daughter."
85:85	H:N	H:H	"Certainly," said the king, "thou shalt have our daughter."
86:86	N:N	H:H	The king said thou to him because he was going to be one of the family.
87:87	N:N	N:H	The wedding-day was fixed, and, on the evening before, the whole city was illuminated.
88:88	N:N	H:H	Cakes and sweetmeats were thrown among the people.
89:89	H:H	H:H	The street boys stood on tiptoe and shouted "hurrah," and whistled between their fingers; altogether it was a very splendid affair.
90:90	N:N	H:H	"I will give them another treat," said the merchant's son.
91:91	N:N	N:N	So he went and bought rockets and crackers, and all sorts of fire-works that could be thought of, packed them in his trunk, and flew up with it into the air.
92:92	N:N	+:+	What a whizzing and popping they made as they went off!
93:93	N:N	+:+	The Turks, when they saw such a sight in the air, jumped so high that their slippers flew about their ears.
94:94	N:N	+:+	It was easy to believe after this that the princess was really going to marry a Turkish angel.
95:95	H:N	H:+	As soon as the merchant's son had come down in his flying trunk to the wood after the fireworks, he thought, "I will go back into the town now, and hear what they think of the entertainment."
96:96	N:N	H:H	It was very natural that he should wish to know.
97:97	N:N	H:H	And what strange things people did say, to be sure! every one whom he questioned had a different tale to tell, though they all thought it very beautiful.
98:98	N:N	H:H	"'I saw the Turkish angel myself," said one; "he had eyes like glittering stars, and a head like foaming water."
99:99	N:N	+:H	"He flew in a mantle of fire," cried another, "and lovely little cherubs peeped out from the folds."
100:100	N:N	H:H	He heard many more fine things about himself, and that the next day he was to be married.
101:101	N:N	N:H	After this he went back to the forest to rest himself in his trunk.
102:102	Su-:N	-:-	It had disappeared!
103:103	Su-:N	-:-	A spark from the fireworks which remained had set it on fire; it was burnt to ashes!
104:104	N:N	-:-	So the merchant's son could not fly any more, nor go to meet his bride.
105:105	N:N	N:-	She stood all day on the roof waiting for him, and most likely she is waiting there still; while he wanders through the world telling fairy tales, but none of them so amusing as the one he related about the matches.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE little dwelling in which we lived was of clay, but the door-posts were columns of fluted marble, found near the spot on which it stood.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The roof sloped nearly to the ground.
2:2	N:N	N:N	It was at this time dark, brown, and ugly, but had originally been formed of blooming olive and laurel branches, brought from beyond the mountains.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The house was situated in a narrow gorge, whose rocky walls rose to a perpendicular height, naked and black, while round their summits clouds often hung, looking like white living figures.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Not a singing bird was ever heard there, neither did men dance to the sound of the pipe.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The spot was one sacred to olden times; even its name recalled a memory of the days when it was called "Delphi."
6:6	N:N	N:N	Then the summits of the dark, sacred mountains were covered with snow, and the highest, mount Parnassus, glowed longest in the red evening light.
7:7	N:N	N:N	The brook which rolled from it near our house, was also sacred.
8:8	N:N	N:N	How well I can remember every spot in that deep, sacred solitude!
9:9	N:N	N:N	A fire had been kindled in the midst of the hut, and while the hot ashes lay there red and glowing, the bread was baked in them.
10:10	H:N	H:N	At times the snow would be piled so high around our hut as almost to hide it, and then my mother appeared most cheerful.
11:11	H:N	H:N	She would hold my head between her hands, and sing the songs she never sang at other times, for the Turks, our masters, would not allow it.
12:12	N:N	H:N	She sang,- "On the summit of mount Olympus, in a forest of dwarf firs, lay an old stag.
13:13	N:N	N:N	His eyes were heavy with tears, and glittering with colors like dewdrops; and there came by a roebuck, and said, 'What ailest thee, that thou weepest blue and red tears?'
14:14	D:N	N:N	And the stag answered, 'The Turk has come to our city; he has wild dogs for the chase, a goodly pack.' 'I will drive them away across the islands!' cried the young roebuck; 'I will drive them away across the islands into the deep sea.'
15:15	N:N	-:-	But before evening the roebuck was slain, and before night the hunted stag was dead."
16:16	Sa:Sa	N:S	And when my mother sang thus, her eyes would become moist; and on the long eyelashes were tears, but she concealed them and watched the black bread baking in the ashes.
17:17	A:A	A:A	Then I would clench my fist, and cry, "We will kill these Turks!"
18:18	N:N	N:S	But she repeated the words of the song, "I will drive them across the islands to the deep sea; but before evening came the roebuck was slain, and before the night the hunted stag was dead."
19:19	N:N	N:N	We had been lonely in our hut for several days and nights when my father came home.
20:20	N:N	N:N	I knew he would bring me some shells from the gulf of Lepanto, or perhaps a knife with a shining blade.
21:21	N:N	N:N	This time he brought, under his sheep-skin cloak, a little child, a little half-naked girl.
22:22	N:N	N:N	She was wrapped in a fur; but when this was taken off, and she lay in my mother's lap, three silver coins were found fastened in her dark hair; they were all her possessions.
23:23	N:N	N:N	My father told us that the child's parents had been killed by the Turks, and he talked so much about them that I dreamed of Turks all night.
24:24	N:N	N:N	He himself had been wounded, and my mother bound up his arm.
25:25	N:N	N:N	It was a deep wound, and the thick sheep-skin cloak was stiff with congealed blood.
26:26	N:N	N:N	The little maiden was to be my sister.
27:27	N:N	N:N	How pretty and bright she looked: even my mother's eyes were not more gentle than hers.
28:28	N:N	N:N	Anastasia, as she was called, was to be my sister, because her father had been united to mine by an old custom, which we still follow.
29:29	N:N	N:N	They had sworn brotherhood in their youth, and the most beautiful and virtuous maiden in the neighborhood was chosen to perform the act of consecration upon this bond of friendship.
30:30	N:N	N:N	So now this little girl was my sister.
31:31	N:N	N:H	She sat in my lap, and I brought her flowers, and feathers from the birds of the mountain.
32:32	N:N	N:N	We drank together of the waters of Parnassus, and dwelt for many years beneath the laurel roof of the hut, while, winter after winter, my mother sang her song of the stag who shed red tears.
33:33	N:N	N:S	But as yet I did not understand that the sorrows of my own countrymen were mirrored in those tears.
34:34	N:N	N:N	One day there came to our hut Franks, men from a far country, whose dress was different to ours.
35:35	N:N	N:-	They had tents and beds with them, carried by horses; and they were accompanied by more than twenty Turks, all armed with swords and muskets.
36:36	N:N	N:N	These Franks were friends of the Pacha, and had letters from him, commanding an escort for them.
37:37	N:N	N:N	They only came to see our mountain, to ascend Parnassus amid the snow and clouds, and to look at the strange black rocks which raised their steep sides near our hut.
38:38	N:N	N:N	They could not find room in the hut, nor endure the smoke that rolled along the ceiling till it found its way out at the low door; so they pitched their tents on a small space outside our dwelling.
39:39	N:N	N:N	Roasted lambs and birds were brought forth, and strong, sweet wine, of which the Turks are forbidden to partake.
40:40	N:N	N:N	When they departed, I accompanied them for some distance, carrying my little sister Anastasia, wrapped in a goat-skin, on my back.
41:41	N:N	N:N	One of the Frankish gentlemen made me stand in front of a rock, and drew us both as we stood there, so that we looked like one creature.
42:42	N:N	N:N	I did not think of it then, but Anastasia and I were really one.
43:43	N:N	N:N	She was always sitting on my lap, or riding in the goat-skin on my back; and in my dreams she always appeared to me.
44:44	N:N	N:-	Two nights after this, other men, armed with knives and muskets, came into our tent.
45:45	N:N	N:N	They were Albanians, brave men, my mother told me.
46:46	N:N	N:N	They only stayed a short time.
47:47	N:N	-:-	My sister Anastasia sat on the knee of one of them; and when they were gone, she had not three, but two silver coins in her hair- one had disappeared.
48:48	N:N	N:N	They wrapped tobacco in strips of paper, and smoked it; and I remember they were uncertain as to the road they ought to take.
49:49	N:N	N:N	But they were obliged to go at last, and my father went with them.
50:50	Su-:N	-:N	Soon after, we heard the sound of firing.
51:51	N:N	-:N	The noise continued, and presently soldiers rushed into our hut, and took my mother and myself and Anastasia prisoners.
52:52	N:N	-:N	They declared that we had entertained robbers, and that my father had acted as their guide, and therefore we must now go with them.
53:53	N:N	-:-	The corpses of the robbers, and my father's corpse, were brought into the hut.
54:54	Sa:Sa	S:S	I saw my poor dead father, and cried till I fell asleep.
55:55	Su-:N	-:S	When I awoke, I found myself in a prison; but the room was not worse than our own in the hut.
56:56	N:N	N:S	They gave me onions and musty wine from a tarred cask; but we were not accustomed to much better fare at home.
57:57	N:N	N:S	How long we were kept in prison, I do not know; but many days and nights passed by.
58:58	N:N	N:N	We were set free about Easter-time.
59:59	N:N	S:S	I carried Anastasia on my back, and we walked very slowly; for my mother was very weak, and it is a long way to the sea, to the Gulf of Lepanto.
60:60	N:N	N:S	On our arrival, we entered a church, in which there were beautiful pictures in golden frames.
61:61	N:N	N:N	They were pictures of angels, fair and bright; and yet our little Anastasia looked equally beautiful, as it seemed to me.
62:62	N:N	N:N	In the centre of the floor stood a coffin filled with roses.
63:63	N:N	N:N	My mother told me it was the Lord Jesus Christ who was represented by these roses.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Then the priest announced, "Christ is risen," and all the people greeted each other.
65:65	N:N	N:N	Each one carried a burning taper in his hand, and one was given to me, as well as to little Anastasia.
66:66	H:N	H:H	The music sounded, and the people left the church hand-in-hand, with joy and gladness.
67:67	N:N	N:N	Outside, the women were roasting the paschal lamb.
68:68	N:N	H:N	We were invited to partake; and as I sat by the fire, a boy, older than myself, put his arms round my neck, and kissed me, and said, "Christ is risen."
69:69	N:N	H:N	And thus it was that for the first time I met Aphtanides.
70:70	N:N	H:N	My mother could make fishermen's nets, for which there was a great demand here in the bay; and we lived a long time by the side of the sea, the beautiful sea, that had a taste like tears, and in its colors reminded me of the stag that wept red tears; for sometimes its waters were red, and sometimes green or blue.
71:71	N:N	H:N	Aphtanides knew how to manage our boat, and I often sat in it, with my little Anastasia, while it glided on through the water, swift as a bird flying through the air.
72:72	N:N	H:N	Then, when the sun set, how beautifully, deeply blue, would be the tint on the mountains, one rising above the other in the far distance, and the summit of mount Parnassus rising above them all like a glorious crown.
73:73	N:N	H:N	Its top glittered in the evening rays like molten gold, and it seemed as if the light came from within it; for long after the sun had sunk beneath the horizon, the mountain-top would glow in the clear, blue sky.
74:74	N:N	H:N	The white aquatic birds skimmed the surface of the water in their flight, and all was calm and still as amid the black rocks at Delphi.
75:75	N:N	H:N	I lay on my back in the boat, Anastasia leaned against me, while the stars above us glittered more brightly than the lamps in our church.
76:76	Su-:N	-:-	They were the same stars, and in the same position over me as when I used to sit in front of our hut at Delphi, and I had almost begun to fancy I was still there, when suddenly there was a splash in the water- Anastasia had fallen in; but in a moment Aphtanides has sprung in after her, and was now holding her up to me.
77:77	F:N	-:N	We dried her clothes as well as we were able, and remained on the water till they were dry; for we did not wish it to be known what a fright we had had, nor the danger which our little adopted sister had incurred, in whose life Aphtanides had now a part.
78:78	N:N	N:N	The summer came, and the burning heat of the sun tinted the leaves of the trees with lines of gold.
79:79	N:N	N:N	I thought of our cool mountain-home, and the fresh water that flowed near it; my mother, too, longed for if, and one evening we wandered towards home.
80:80	H:N	H:N	How peaceful and silent it was as we walked on through the thick, wild thyme, still fragrant, though the sun had scorched the leaves.
81:81	N:N	N:N	Not a single herdsman did we meet, not a solitary hut did we pass; everything appeared lonely and deserted- only a shooting star showed that in the heavens there was yet life.
82:82	N:N	N:N	I know not whether the clear, blue atmosphere gleamed with its own light, or if the radiance came from the stars; but we could distinguish quite plainly the outline of the mountains.
83:83	N:F	N:N	My mother lighted a fire, and roasted some roots she had brought with her, and I and my little sister slept among the bushes, without fear of the ugly smidraki, from whose throat issues fire, or of the wolf and the jackal; for my mother sat by us, and I considered her presence sufficient protection.
84:84	N:N	N:N	We reached our old home; but the cottage was in ruins, and we had to build a new one.
85:85	N:N	N:N	With the aid of some neighbors, chiefly women, the walls were in a few days erected, and very soon covered with a roof of olive-branches.
86:86	N:N	N:N	My mother obtained a living by making bottle-cases of bark and skins, and I kept the sheep belonging to the priests, who were sometimes peasants, while I had for my playfellows Anastasia and the turtles.
87:87	N:N	N:N	Once our beloved Aphtanides paid us a visit.
88:88	H:N	H:H	He said he had been longing to see us so much; and he remained with us two whole happy days.
89:89	N:N	N:H	A month afterwards he came again to wish us good-bye, and brought with him a large fish for my mother.
90:90	N:N	N:N	He told us he was going in a ship to Corfu and Patras, and could relate a great many stories, not only about the fishermen who lived near the gulf of Lepanto, but also of kings and heroes who had once possessed Greece, just as the Turks possess it now.
91:91	N:N	N:N	I have seen a bud on a rose-bush gradually, in the course of a few weeks, unfold its leaves till it became a rose in all its beauty; and, before I was aware of it, I beheld it blooming in rosy loveliness.
92:92	N:N	N:N	The same thing had happened to Anastasia.
93:93	N:N	N:N	Unnoticed by me, she had gradually become a beautiful maiden, and I was now also a stout, strong youth.
94:94	N:N	N:N	The wolf-skins that covered the bed in which my mother and Anastasia slept, had been taken from wolves which I had myself shot.
95:95	N:N	N:N	Years had gone by when, one evening, Aphtanides came in.
96:96	N:N	N:N	He had grown tall and slender as a reed, with strong limbs, and a dark, brown skin.
97:97	N:N	N:N	He kissed us all, and had so much to tell of what he had seen of the great ocean, of the fortifications at Malta, and of the marvellous sepulchres of Egypt, that I looked up to him with a kind of veneration.
98:98	N:N	N:N	His stories were as strange as the legends of the priests of olden times.
99:99	Su+:N	+:+	"How much you know!"
100:100	Su+:N	+:H	I exclaimed, "and what wonders you can relate?"
101:101	H:N	H:N	"I think what you once told me, the finest of all," he replied; "you told me of a thing that has never been out of my thoughts- of the good old custom of 'the bond of friendship,'- a custom I should like to follow.
102:102	H:N	H:N	Brother, let you and I go to church, as your father and Anastasia's father once did.
103:103	H:N	H:N	Your sister Anastasia is the most beautiful and most innocent of maidens, and she shall consecrate the deed.
104:104	N:N	H:N	No people have such grand old customs as we Greeks."
105:105	H:N	H:N	Anastasia blushed like a young rose, and my mother kissed Aphtanides.
106:106	N:N	N:N	At about two miles from our cottage, where the earth on the hill is sheltered by a few scattered trees, stood the little church, with a silver lamp hanging before the altar.
107:107	N:N	N:N	I put on my best clothes, and the white tunic fell in graceful folds over my hips.
108:108	N:N	N:N	The red jacket fitted tight and close, the tassel on my Fez cap was of silver, and in my girdle glittered a knife and my pistols.
109:109	N:N	N:N	Aphtanides was clad in the blue dress worn by the Greek sailors; on his breast hung a silver medal with the figure of the Virgin Mary, and his scarf was as costly as those worn by rich lords.
110:110	N:N	N:N	Every one could see that we were about to perform a solemn ceremony.
111:111	N:N	N:N	When we entered the little, unpretending church, the evening sunlight streamed through the open door on the burning lamp, and glittered on the golden picture frames.
112:112	N:N	N:N	We knelt down together on the altar steps, and Anastasia drew near and stood beside us.
113:113	N:N	N:N	A long, white garment fell in graceful folds over her delicate form, and on her white neck and bosom hung a chain entwined with old and new coins, forming a kind of collar.
114:114	N:N	N:N	Her black hair was fastened into a knot, and confined by a headdress formed of gold and silver coins which had been found in an ancient temple.
115:115	N:N	N:H	No Greek girl had more beautiful ornaments than these.
116:116	N:N	N:H	Her countenance glowed, and her eyes were like two stars.
117:117	N:N	N:H	We all three offered a silent prayer, and then she said to us, "Will you be friends in life and in death?"
118:118	N:N	N:H	"Yes," we replied.
119:119	N:N	N:H	"Will you each remember to say, whatever may happen, 'My brother is a part of myself; his secret is my secret, my happiness is his; self-sacrifice, patience, everything belongs to me as they do to him?'"
120:120	N:N	N:H	And we again answered, "Yes."
121:121	H:N	H:H	Then she joined out hands and kissed us on the forehead, and we again prayed silently.
122:122	N:N	N:H	After this a priest came through a door near the altar, and blessed us all three.
123:123	N:N	N:H	Then a song was sung by other holy men behind the altar-screen, and the bond of eternal friendship was confirmed.
124:124	H:Sa	H:N	When we arose, I saw my mother standing by the church door, weeping.
125:125	N:N	H:H	How cheerful everything seemed now in our little cottage by the Delphian springs!
126:126	N:N	N:H	On the evening before his departure, Aphtanides sat thoughtfully beside me on the slopes of the mountain.
127:127	N:N	H:N	His arm was flung around me, and mine was round his neck.
128:128	N:N	N:N	We spoke of the sorrows of Greece, and of the men of the country who could be trusted.
129:129	N:N	N:N	Every thought of our souls lay clear before us.
130:130	N:N	N:N	Presently I seized his hand: "Aphtanides," I exclaimed, "there is one thing still that you must know,- one thing that till now has been a secret between myself and Heaven.
131:131	N:N	N:H	My whole soul is filled with love,- with a love stronger than the love I bear to my mother and to thee.
132:132	N:N	N:N	"And whom do you love?" asked Aphtanides.
133:133	N:N	N:H	And his face and neck grew red as fire.
134:134	N:N	N:N	"I love Anastasia," I replied.
135:135	Sa:F	S:-	Then his hand trembled in mine, and he became pale as a corpse.
136:136	N:F	S:-	I saw it, I understood the cause, and I believe my hand trembled too.
137:137	N:N	S:F	I bent towards him, I kissed his forehead, and whispered, "I have never spoken of this to her, and perhaps she does not love me.
138:138	N:N	S:N	Brother, think of this; I have seen her daily, she has grown up beside me, and has become a part of my soul."
139:139	Sa:N	S:N	"And she shall be thine," he exclaimed; "thine!
140:140	N:N	S:N	I may not wrong thee, nor will I do so.
141:141	Sa:N	S:N	I also love her, but tomorrow I depart.
142:142	N:N	S:N	In a year we will see each other again, but then you will be married; shall it not be so?
143:143	N:N	N:N	I have a little gold of my own, it shall be yours.
144:144	N:N	N:N	You must and shall take it."
145:145	N:N	N:S	We wandered silently homeward across the mountains.
146:146	N:N	N:N	It was late in the evening when we reached my mother's door.
147:147	N:N	N:N	Anastasia held the lamp as we entered; my mother was not there.
148:148	Sa:N	S:S	She looked at Aphtanides with a sweet but mournful expression on her face.
149:149	Sa:N	S:S	"To-morrow you are going to leave us," she said.
150:150	Sa:N	S:S	"I am very sorry."
151:151	Sa:Sa	S:S	"Sorry!" he exclaimed, and his voice was troubled with a grief as deep as my own.
152:152	N:N	S:S	I could not speak; but he seized her hand and said, "Our brother yonder loves you, and is he not dear to you?
153:153	N:N	N:N	His very silence now proves his affection."
154:154	Su+:H	+:H	Anastasia trembled, and burst into tears.
155:155	N:N	+:N	Then I saw no one, thought of none, but her.
156:156	H:N	+:N	I threw my arms round her, and pressed my lips to hers.
157:157	N:N	+:N	As she flung her arms round my neck, the lamp fell to the ground, and we were in darkness, dark as the heart of poor Aphtanides.
158:158	N:N	N:S	Before daybreak he rose, kissed us all, and said "Farewell," and went away.
159:159	N:N	N:S	He had given all his money to my mother for us.
160:160	N:N	N:H	Anastasia was betrothed to me, and in a few days afterwards she became my wife.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a regular student, who lived in a garret, and had no possessions.
1:1	N:N	N:N	And there was also a regular huckster, to whom the house belonged, and who occupied the ground floor.
2:2	N:N	N:N	A goblin lived with the huckster, because at Christmas he always had a large dish full of jam, with a great piece of butter in the middle.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The huckster could afford this; and therefore the goblin remained with the huckster, which was very cunning of him.
4:4	N:N	N:N	One evening the student came into the shop through the back door to buy candles and cheese for himself, he had no one to send, and therefore he came himself; he obtained what he wished, and then the huckster and his wife nodded good evening to him, and she was a woman who could do more than merely nod, for she had usually plenty to say for herself.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The student nodded in return as he turned to leave, then suddenly stopped, and began reading the piece of paper in which the cheese was wrapped.
6:6	N:N	N:N	It was a leaf torn out of an old book, a book that ought not to have been torn up, for it was full of poetry.
7:7	N:N	N:-	"Yonder lies some more of the same sort," said the huckster: "I gave an old woman a few coffee berries for it; you shall have the rest for sixpence, if you will."
8:8	N:N	N:N	"Indeed I will," said the student; "give me the book instead of the cheese; I can eat my bread and butter without cheese.
9:9	N:N	N:N	It would be a sin to tear up a book like this.
10:10	Su+:N	+:-	You are a clever man; and a practical man; but you understand no more about poetry than that cask yonder."
11:11	H:N	H:-	This was a very rude speech, especially against the cask; but the huckster and the student both laughed, for it was only said in fun.
12:12	A:A	A:A	But the goblin felt very angry that any man should venture to say such things to a huckster who was a householder and sold the best butter.
13:13	N:N	N:-	As soon as it was night, and the shop closed, and every one in bed except the student, the goblin stepped softly into the bedroom where the huckster's wife slept, and took away her tongue, which of course, she did not then want.
14:14	N:N	N:N	Whatever object in the room he placed his tongue upon immediately received voice and speech, and was able to express its thoughts and feelings as readily as the lady herself could do.
15:15	N:N	N:N	It could only be used by one object at a time, which was a good thing, as a number speaking at once would have caused great confusion.
16:16	N:N	N:N	The goblin laid the tongue upon the cask, in which lay a quantity of old newspapers.
17:17	N:N	N:N	"Is it really true," he asked, that you do not know what poetry is?"
18:18	N:N	N:N	"Of course I know," replied the cask: "poetry is something that always stand in the corner of a newspaper, and is sometimes cut out; and I may venture to affirm that I have more of it in me than the student has, and I am only a poor tub of the huckster's."
19:19	N:N	+:N	Then the goblin placed the tongue on the coffee mill; and how it did go to be sure!
20:20	N:N	N:N	Then he put it on the butter tub and the cash box, and they all expressed the same opinion as the waste-paper tub; and a majority must always be respected.
21:21	H:N	N:N	"Now I shall go and tell the student," said the goblin; and with these words he went quietly up the back stairs to the garret where the student lived.
22:22	N:N	N:N	He had a candle burning still, and the goblin peeped through the keyhole and saw that he was reading in the torn book, which he had brought out of the shop.
23:23	Su-:N	+:N	But how light the room was!
24:24	N:N	+:N	From the book shot forth a ray of light which grew broad and full, like the stem of a tree, from which bright rays spread upward and over the student's head.
25:25	N:N	+:N	Each leaf was fresh, and each flower was like a beautiful female head; some with dark and sparkling eyes, and others with eyes that were wonderfully blue and clear.
26:26	N:N	+:N	The fruit gleamed like stars, and the room was filled with sounds of beautiful music.
27:27	Su+:N	+:H	The little goblin had never imagined, much less seen or heard of, any sight so glorious as this.
28:28	N:N	N:N	He stood still on tiptoe, peeping in, till the light went out in the garret.
29:29	H:N	H:N	The student no doubt had blown out his candle and gone to bed; but the little goblin remained standing there nevertheless, and listening to the music which still sounded on, soft and beautiful, a sweet cradle-song for the student, who had lain down to rest."
30:30	H:H	H:N	"This is a wonderful place," said the goblin; "I never expected such a thing.
31:31	H:N	H:N	I should like to stay here with the student;" and the little man thought it over, for he was a sensible little spirit.
32:32	A:Su-	-:-	At last he sighed, "but the student has no jam!"
33:33	N:N	N:N	So he went down stairs again into the huckster's shop, and it was a good thing he got back when he did, for the cask had almost worn out the lady's tongue; he had given a description of all that he contained on one side, and was just about to turn himself over to the other side to describe what was there, when the goblin entered and restored the tongue to the lady.
34:34	N:N	N:N	But from that time forward, the whole shop, from the cash box down to the pinewood logs, formed their opinions from that of the cask; and they all had such confidence in him, and treated him with so much respect, that when the huckster read the criticisms on theatricals and art of an evening, they fancied it must all come from the cask.
35:35	H:N	H:N	But after what he had seen, the goblin could no longer sit and listen quietly to the wisdom and understanding down stairs; so, as soon as the evening light glimmered in the garret, he took courage, for it seemed to him as if the rays of light were strong cables, drawing him up, and obliging him to go and peep through the keyhole; and, while there, a feeling of vastness came over him such as we experience by the ever-moving sea, when the storm breaks forth; and it brought tears into his eyes.
36:36	H:Sa	H:S	He did not himself know why he wept, yet a kind of pleasant feeling mingled with his tears.
37:37	N:N	H:N	"How wonderfully glorious it would be to sit with the student under such a tree;" but that was out of the question, he must be content to look through the keyhole, and be thankful for even that.
38:38	N:N	N:N	There he stood on the old landing, with the autumn wind blowing down upon him through the trap-door.
39:39	N:N	N:N	It was very cold; but the little creature did not really feel it, till the light in the garret went out, and the tones of music died away.
40:40	N:N	N:N	Then how he shivered, and crept down stairs again to his warm corner, where it felt home-like and comfortable.
41:41	H:N	H:N	And when Christmas came again, and brought the dish of jam and the great lump of butter, he liked the huckster best of all.
42:42	Su-:N	-:N	Soon after, in the middle of the night, the goblin was awoke by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors, and by the sound of the watchman's horn; for a great fire had broken out, and the whole street appeared full of flames.
43:43	N:N	-:N	Was it in their house, or a neighbor's?
44:44	N:F	F:F	No one could tell, for terror had seized upon all.
45:45	N:N	-:F	The huckster's wife was so bewildered that she took her gold ear-rings out of her ears and put them in her pocket, that she might save something at least.
46:46	N:N	-:F	The huckster ran to get his business papers, and the servant resolved to save her blue silk mantle, which she had managed to buy.
47:47	N:N	-:F	Each wished to keep the best things they had.
48:48	N:N	N:F	The goblin had the same wish; for, with one spring, he was up stairs and in the student's room, whom he found standing by the open window, and looking quite calmly at the fire, which was raging at the house of a neighbor opposite.
49:49	N:N	N:N	The goblin caught up the wonderful book which lay on the table, and popped it into his red cap, which he held tightly with both hands.
50:50	N:N	N:N	The greatest treasure in the house was saved; and he ran away with it to the roof, and seated himself on the chimney.
51:51	N:N	N:N	The flames of the burning house opposite illuminated him as he sat, both hands pressed tightly over his cap, in which the treasure lay; and then he found out what feelings really reigned in his heart, and knew exactly which way they tended.
52:52	N:N	N:N	And yet, when the fire was extinguished, and the goblin again began to reflect, he hesitated, and said at last, "I must divide myself between the two; I cannot quite give up the huckster, because of the jam."
53:53	N:N	N:N	And this is a representation of human nature.
54:54	N:N	N:N	We are like the goblin; we all go to visit the huckster "because of the jam."
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE drummer's wife went into the church.
1:1	N:N	N:N	She saw the new altar with the painted pictures and the carved angels.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Those upon the canvas and in the glory over the altar were just as beautiful as the carved ones; and they were painted and gilt into the bargain.
3:3	N:N	N:N	Their hair gleamed golden in the sunshine, lovely to behold; but the real sunshine was more beautiful still.
4:4	N:N	N:N	It shone redder, clearer through the dark trees, when the sun went down.
5:5	N:N	H:N	It was lovely thus to look at the sunshine of heaven.
6:6	N:N	H:H	And she looked at the red sun, and she thought about it so deeply, and thought of the little one whom the stork was to bring, and the wife of the drummer was very cheerful, and looked and looked, and wished that the child might have a gleam of sunshine given to it, so that it might at least become like one of the shining angels over the altar.
7:7	N:N	H:N	And when she really had the little child in her arms, and held it up to its father, then it was like one of the angels in the church to behold, with hair like gold- the gleam of the setting sun was upon it.
8:8	H:H	H:H	"My golden treasure, my riches, my sunshine!" said the mother; and she kissed the shining locks, and it sounded like music and song in the room of the drummer; and there was joy, and life, and movement.
9:9	H:N	H:H	The drummer beat a roll- a roll of joy.
10:10	N:N	N:H	And the Drum said- the Fire-drum, that was beaten when there was a fire in the town: "Red hair! the little fellow has red hair!
11:11	N:N	N:H	Believe the drum, and not what your mother says!
12:12	N:N	N:N	Rub-a dub, rub-a dub!"
13:13	N:N	N:N	And the town repeated what the Fire-drum had said.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The boy was taken to church, the boy was christened.
15:15	N:N	N:N	There was nothing much to be said about his name; he was called Peter.
16:16	N:N	N:N	The whole town, and the Drum too, called him Peter the drummer's boy with the red hair; but his mother kissed his red hair, and called him her golden treasure.
17:17	N:N	N:N	In the hollow way in the clayey bank, many had scratched their names as a remembrance.
18:18	H:N	H:N	"Celebrity is always something!" said the drummer; and so he scratched his own name there, and his little son's name likewise.
19:19	N:N	N:N	And the swallows came.
20:20	N:N	N:N	They had, on their long journey, seen more durable characters engraven on rocks, and on the walls of the temples in Hindostan, mighty deeds of great kings, immortal names, so old that no one now could read or speak them.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Remarkable celebrity!
22:22	N:N	N:N	In the clayey bank the martens built their nest.
23:23	N:N	N:N	They bored holes in the deep declivity, and the splashing rain and the thin mist came and crumbled and washed the names away, and the drummer's name also, and that of his little son.
24:24	H:N	H:N	"Peter's name will last a full year and a half longer!" said the father.
25:25	Su-:A	N:A	"Fool!" thought the Fire-drum; but it only said, "Dub, dub, dub, rub-a-dub!"
26:26	H:N	H:N	He was a boy full of life and gladness, this drummer's son with the red hair.
27:27	N:N	H:N	He had a lovely voice.
28:28	N:N	H:N	He could sing, and he sang like a bird in the woodland.
29:29	N:N	H:N	There was melody, and yet no melody.
30:30	N:N	N:N	"He must become a chorister boy," said his mother.
31:31	H:N	H:H	"He shall sing in the church, and stand among the beautiful gilded angels who are like him!"
32:32	N:N	N:N	"Fiery cat!" said some of the witty ones of the town.
33:33	N:N	N:N	The Drum heard that from the neighbors' wives.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"Don't go home, Peter," cried the street boys.
35:35	N:N	N:N	"If you sleep in the garret, there'll be a fire in the house, and the fire-drum will have to be beaten."
36:36	A:A	N:N	"Look out for the drumsticks," replied Peter; and, small as he was, he ran up boldly, and gave the foremost such a punch in the body with his fist, that the fellow lost his legs and tumbled over, and the others took their legs off with themselves very rapidly.
37:37	N:N	N:N	The town musician was very genteel and fine.
38:38	N:N	N:N	He was the son of the royal plate-washer.
39:39	N:N	N:N	He was very fond of Peter, and would sometimes take him to his home; and he gave him a violin, and taught him to play it.
40:40	N:N	N:N	It seemed as if the whole art lay in the boy's fingers; and he wanted to be more than a drummer- he wanted to become musician to the town.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"I'll be a soldier," said Peter; for he was still quite a little lad, and it seemed to him the finest thing in the world to carry a gun, and to be able to march one, two- one, two, and to wear a uniform and a sword.
42:42	N:N	N:N	"Ah, you learn to long for the drum-skin, drum, dum, dum!" said the Drum.
43:43	N:N	N:N	"Yes, if he could only march his way up to be a general!" observed his father; "but before he can do that, there must be war."
44:44	F:Su-	N:N	"Heaven forbid!" said his mother.
45:45	N:N	N:N	"We have nothing to lose," remarked the father.
46:46	A:A	N:N	"Yes, we have my boy," she retorted.
47:47	H:N	H:N	"But suppose he came back a general!" said the father.
48:48	D:A	D:N	"Without arms and legs!" cried the mother.
49:49	N:N	N:N	"No, I would rather keep my golden treasure with me."
50:50	N:N	N:N	"Drum, dum, dum!"
51:51	N:N	N:N	The Fire-drum and all the other drums were beating, for war had come.
52:52	N:N	N:F	The soldiers all set out, and the son of the drummer followed them.
53:53	N:N	N:F	"Red-head. Golden treasure!"
54:54	Sa:Sa	N:F	The mother wept; the father in fancy saw him "famous;" the town musician was of opinion that he ought not to go to war, but should stay at home and learn music.
55:55	N:N	N:F	"Red-head," said the soldiers, and little Peter laughed; but when one of them sometimes said to another, "Foxey," he would bite his teeth together and look another way- into the wide world.
56:56	N:N	N:F	He did not care for the nickname.
57:57	N:N	N:F	The boy was active, pleasant of speech, and good-humored; that is the best canteen, said his old comrades.
58:58	N:N	N:F	And many a night he had to sleep under the open sky, wet through with the driving rain or the falling mist; but his good humor never forsook him.
59:59	N:N	N:F	The drum-sticks sounded, "Rub-a-dub, all up, all up!"
60:60	N:N	N:F	Yes, he was certainly born to be a drummer.
61:61	N:N	N:F	The day of battle dawned.
62:62	N:N	N:F	The sun had not yet risen, but the morning was come.
63:63	N:N	N:F	The air was cold, the battle was hot; there was mist in the air, but still more gunpowder-smoke.
64:64	N:N	-:-	The bullets and shells flew over the soldiers' heads, and into their heads- into their bodies and limbs; but still they pressed forward.
65:65	N:N	-:-	Here or there one or other of them would sink on his knees, with bleeding temples and a face as white as chalk.
66:66	N:H	N:N	The little drummer still kept his healthy color; he had suffered no damage; he looked cheerfully at the dog of the regiment, which was jumping along as merrily as if the whole thing had been got up for his amusement, and as if the bullets were only flying about that he might have a game of play with them.
67:67	N:N	N:N	"March!
68:68	N:N	N:N	Forward!
69:69	N:N	N:N	March!"
70:70	N:N	N:N	This, was the word of command for the drum.
71:71	N:N	N:-	The word had not yet been given to fall back, though they might have done so, and perhaps there would have been much sense in it; and now at last the word "Retire" was given; but our little drummer beat "Forward! march!" for he had understood the command thus, and the soldiers obeyed the sound of the drum.
72:72	N:N	+:N	That was a good roll, and proved the summons to victory for the men, who had already begun to give way.
73:73	N:N	N:-	Life and limb were lost in the battle.
74:74	N:N	N:-	Bombshells tore away the flesh in red strips; bombshells lit up into a terrible glow the strawheaps to which the wounded had dragged themselves, to lie untended for many hours, perhaps for all the hours they had to live.
75:75	N:N	N:N	It's no use thinking of it; and yet one cannot help thinking of it, even far away in the peaceful town.
76:76	N:N	N:N	The drummer and his wife also thought of it, for Peter was at the war.
77:77	N:N	N:N	"Now, I'm tired of these complaints," said the Fire-drum.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Again the day of battle dawned; the sun had not yet risen, but it was morning.
79:79	N:N	N:N	The drummer and his wife were asleep.
80:80	N:N	N:N	They had been talking about their son, as, indeed, they did almost every night, for he was out yonder in God's hand.
81:81	N:N	N:H	And the father dreamt that the war was over, that the soldiers had returned home, and that Peter wore a silver cross on his breast.
82:82	N:N	N:-	But the mother dreamt that she had gone into the church, and had seen the painted pictures and the carved angels with the gilded hair, and her own dear boy, the golden treasure of her heart, who was standing among the angels in white robes, singing so sweetly, as surely only the angels can sing; and that he had soared up with them into the sunshine, and nodded so kindly at his mother.
83:83	F:Sa	-:-	"My golden treasure!" she cried out; and she awoke.
84:84	Su-:N	-:N	"Now the good God has taken him to Himself!"
85:85	Sa:Sa	S:S	She folded her hands, and hid her face in the cotton curtains of the bed, and wept.
86:86	N:N	S:S	"Where does he rest now? among the many in the big grave that they have dug for the dead?
87:87	Sa:N	S:-	Perhaps he's in the water in the marsh!
88:88	Sa:N	S:-	Nobody knows his grave; no holy words have been read over it!"
89:89	N:Sa	S:S	And the Lord's Prayer went inaudibly over her lips; she bowed her head, and was so weary that she went to sleep.
90:90	N:N	S:N	And the days went by, in life as in dreams!
91:91	N:N	N:N	It was evening.
92:92	N:N	N:N	Over the battle-field a rainbow spread, which touched the forest and the deep marsh.
93:93	N:N	N:N	It has been said, and is preserved in popular belief, that where the rainbow touches the earth a treasure lies buried, a golden treasure; and here there was one.
94:94	N:N	N:N	No one but his mother thought of the little drummer, and therefore she dreamt of him.
95:95	N:N	N:N	And the days went by, in life as in dreams!
96:96	N:N	N:N	Not a hair of his head had been hurt, not a golden hair.
97:97	N:N	N:N	"Drum-ma-rum! drum-ma-rum! there he is!" the Drum might have said, and his mother might have sung, if she had seen or dreamt it.
98:98	N:N	H:H	With hurrah and song, adorned with green wreaths of victory, they came home, as the war was at an end, and peace had been signed.
99:99	N:H	N:H	The dog of the regiment sprang on in front with large bounds, and made the way three times as long for himself as it really was.
100:100	N:N	N:N	And days and weeks went by, and Peter came into his parents' room.
101:101	H:N	H:H	He was as brown as a wild man, and his eyes were bright, and his face beamed like sunshine.
102:102	H:N	H:H	And his mother held him in her arms; she kissed his lips, his forehead, and his red hair.
103:103	N:N	H:H	She had her boy back again; he had not a silver cross on his breast, as his father had dreamt, but he had sound limbs, a thing the mother had not dreamt.
104:104	N:N	H:H	And what a rejoicing was there!
105:105	H:H	H:H	They laughed and they wept; and Peter embraced the old Fire-drum.
106:106	N:N	H:N	"There stands the old skeleton still!" he said.
107:107	N:N	H:N	And the father beat a roll upon it.
108:108	N:N	N:N	"One would think that a great fire had broken out here," said the Fire-drum.
109:109	H:N	H:N	"Bright day! fire in the heart! golden treasure! skrat! skr-r-at! skr-r-r-r-at!"
110:110	N:N	N:N	And what then?
111:111	N:N	N:N	What then!- Ask the town musician.
112:112	N:N	N:N	"Peter's far outgrowing the drum," he said.
113:113	N:N	N:N	"Peter will be greater than I."
114:114	N:N	N:N	And yet he was the son of a royal plate-washer; but all that he had learned in half a lifetime, Peter learned in half a year.
115:115	N:N	N:H	There was something so merry about him, something so truly kind-hearted.
116:116	N:N	N:H	His eyes gleamed, and his hair gleamed too- there was no denying that!
117:117	N:N	N:N	"He ought to have his hair dyed," said the neighbor's wife.
118:118	N:N	N:N	"That answered capitally with the policeman's daughter, and she got a husband."
119:119	N:N	N:N	"But her hair turned as green as duckweed, and was always having to be colored up."
120:120	N:N	N:N	"She knows how to manage for herself," said the neighbors, "and so can Peter.
121:121	N:N	N:N	He comes to the most genteel houses, even to the burgomaster's where he gives Miss Charlotte piano-forte lessons."
122:122	N:N	N:N	He could play!
123:123	N:N	N:N	He could play, fresh out of his heart, the most charming pieces, that had never been put upon music-paper.
124:124	N:N	N:N	He played in the bright nights, and in the dark nights, too.
125:125	D:N	D:N	The neighbors declared it was unbearable, and the Fire-drum was of the same opinion.
126:126	N:N	N:N	He played until his thoughts soared up, and burst forth in great plans for the future: "To be famous!"
127:127	N:N	N:N	And burgomaster's Charlotte sat at the piano.
128:128	N:N	N:N	Her delicate fingers danced over the keys, and made them ring into Peter's heart.
129:129	H:N	H:H	It seemed too much for him to bear; and this happened not once, but many times; and at last one day he seized the delicate fingers and the white hand, and kissed it, and looked into her great brown eyes.
130:130	N:N	H:H	Heaven knows what he said; but we may be allowed to guess at it.
131:131	H:N	H:H	Charlotte blushed to guess at it.
132:132	N:N	H:H	She reddened from brow to neck, and answered not a single word; and then strangers came into the room, and one of them was the state councillor's son.
133:133	N:N	N:N	He had a lofty white forehead, and carried it so high that it seemed to go back into his neck.
134:134	N:N	N:N	And Peter sat by her a long time, and she looked at him with gentle eyes.
135:135	N:N	N:N	At home that evening he spoke of travel in the wide world, and of the golden treasure that lay hidden for him in his violin.
136:136	H:N	H:H	"To be famous!"
137:137	N:N	N:H	"Tum-me-lum, tum-me-lum, tum-me-lum!" said the Fire-drum.
138:138	N:N	N:N	"Peter has gone clear out of his wits.
139:139	N:N	N:N	I think there must be a fire in the house."
140:140	N:N	N:N	Next day the mother went to market.
141:141	N:N	N:N	"Shall I tell you news, Peter?" she asked when she came home.
142:142	N:N	N:N	"A capital piece of news.
143:143	N:N	N:-	Burgomaster's Charlotte has engaged herself to the state councillor's son; the betrothal took place yesterday evening."
144:144	Su-:Sa	-:-	"No!" cried Peter, and he sprang up from his chair.
145:145	N:N	-:-	But his mother persisted in saying "Yes."
146:146	Su-:Sa	-:-	She had heard it from the baker's wife, whose husband had it from the burgomaster's own mouth And Peter became as pale as death, and sat down again.
147:147	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Good Heaven! what's the matter with you?" asked his mother.
148:148	Sa:Sa	S:S	"Nothing, nothing; only leave me to myself," he answered but the tears were running down his cheeks.
149:149	Sa:Sa	S:S	"My sweet child, my golden treasure!" cried the mother, and she wept; but the Fire-drum sang, not out loud, but inwardly.
150:150	N:N	-:S	"Charlotte's gone!
151:151	N:N	-:S	Charlotte's gone! and now the song is done."
152:152	N:N	N:N	But the song was not done; there were many more verses in it, long verses, the most beautiful verses, the golden treasures of a life.
153:153	N:N	N:-	"She behaves like a mad woman," said the neighbor's wife.
154:154	N:N	N:-	"All the world is to see the letters she gets from her golden treasure, and to read the words that are written in the papers about his violin playing.
155:155	N:N	N:-	And he sends her money too, and that's very useful to her since she has been a widow."
156:156	N:N	N:N	"He plays before emperors and kings," said the town musician.
157:157	N:N	N:N	"I never had that fortune, but he's my pupil, and he does not forget his old master."
158:158	N:N	N:-	And his mother said, "His father dreamt that Peter came home from the war with a silver cross.
159:159	N:N	N:N	He did not gain one in the war, but it is still more difficult to gain one in this way.
160:160	N:N	N:N	Now he has the cross of honor.
161:161	Sa:N	N:-	If his father had only lived to see it!"
162:162	Su+:N	+:+	"He's grown famous!" said the Fire-drum, and all his native town said the same thing, for the drummer's son, Peter with the red hair- Peter whom they had known as a little boy, running about in wooden shoes, and then as a drummer, playing for the dancers- was become famous!
163:163	N:N	N:+	"He played at our house before he played in the presence of kings," said the burgomaster's wife.
164:164	N:N	N:+	"At that time he was quite smitten with Charlotte.
165:165	N:N	N:+	He was always of an aspiring turn.
166:166	N:N	N:+	At that time he was saucy and an enthusiast.
167:167	N:N	N:+	My husband laughed when he heard of the foolish affair, and now our Charlotte is a state councillor's wife."
168:168	N:N	N:N	A golden treasure had been hidden in the heart and soul of the poor child, who had beaten the roll as a drummer- a roll of victory for those who had been ready to retreat.
169:169	N:N	N:H	There was a golden treasure in his bosom, the power of sound; it burst forth on his violin as if the instrument had been a complete organ, and as if all the elves of a midsummer night were dancing across the strings.
170:170	N:N	N:H	In its sounds were heard the piping of the thrush and the full clear note of the human voice; therefore the sound brought rapture to every heart, and carried his name triumphant through the land.
171:171	N:N	N:H	That was a great firebrand- the firebrand of inspiration.
172:172	H:N	+:H	"And then he looks so splendid!" said the young ladies and the old ladies too; and the oldest of all procured an album for famous locks of hair, wholly and solely that she might beg a lock of his rich splendid hair, that treasure, that golden treasure.
173:173	H:N	H:H	And the son came into the poor room of the drummer, elegant as a prince, happier than a king.
174:174	H:H	H:H	His eyes were as clear and his face was as radiant as sunshine; and he held his mother in his arms, and she kissed his mouth, and wept as blissfully as any one can weep for joy; and he nodded at every old piece of furniture in the room, at the cupboard with the tea-cups, and at the flower-vase.
175:175	N:N	H:H	He nodded at the sleeping-bench, where he had slept as a little boy; but the old Fire-drum he brought out, and dragged it into the middle of the room, and said to it and to his mother: "My father would have beaten a famous roll this evening.
176:176	H:N	H:H	Now I must do it!"
177:177	H:N	H:H	And he beat a thundering roll-call on the instrument, and the Drum felt so highly honored that the parchment burst with exultation.
178:178	H:N	H:H	"He has a splendid touch!" said the Drum.
179:179	H:N	H:H	"I've a remembrance of him now that will last.
180:180	N:N	H:H	I expect that the same thing will happen to his mother, from pure joy over her golden treasure."
181:181	N:N	H:H	And this is the story of the Golden Treasure.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN a house in Copenhagen, not far from the king's new market, a very large party had assembled, the host and his family expecting, no doubt, to receive invitations in return.
1:1	N:N	N:N	One half of the company were already seated at the card-tables, the other half seemed to be waiting the result of their hostess's question, "Well, how shall we amuse ourselves?"
2:2	N:N	N:N	Conversation followed, which, after a while, began to prove very entertaining.
3:3	N:N	N:N	Among other subjects, it turned upon the events of the middle ages, which some persons maintained were more full of interest than our own times.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Counsellor Knapp defended this opinion so warmly that the lady of the house immediately went over to his side, and both exclaimed against Oersted's Essays on Ancient and Modern Times, in which the preference is given to our own.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The counsellor considered the times of the Danish king, Hans, as the noblest and happiest.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The conversation on this topic was only interrupted for a moment by the arrival of a newspaper, which did not, however, contain much worth reading, and while it is still going on we will pay a visit to the ante-room, in which cloaks, sticks, and goloshes were carefully placed.
7:7	N:N	N:N	Here sat two maidens, one young, and the other old, as if they had come and were waiting to accompany their mistresses home; but on looking at them more closely, it could easily be seen that they were no common servants.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Their shapes were too graceful, their complexions too delicate, and the cut of their dresses much too elegant.
9:9	N:N	N:N	They were two fairies.
10:10	N:N	N:N	The younger was not Fortune herself, but the chambermaid of one of Fortune's attendants, who carries about her more trifling gifts.
11:11	Sa:N	N:N	The elder one, who was named Care, looked rather gloomy; she always goes about to perform her own business in person; for then she knows it is properly done.
12:12	N:N	N:N	They were telling each other where they had been during the day.
13:13	N:N	N:N	The messenger of Fortune had only transacted a few unimportant matters; for instance, she had preserved a new bonnet from a shower of rain, and obtained for an honest man a bow from a titled nobody, and so on; but she had something extraordinary to relate, after all.
14:14	H:N	H:N	"I must tell you," said she, "that to-day is my birthday; and in honor of it I have been intrusted with a pair of goloshes, to introduce amongst mankind.
15:15	N:N	N:N	These goloshes have the property of making every one who puts them on imagine himself in any place he wishes, or that he exists at any period.
16:16	N:N	H:N	Every wish is fulfilled at the moment it is expressed, so that for once mankind have the chance of being happy."
17:17	D:N	D:N	No," replied Care; "you may depend upon it that whoever puts on those goloshes will be very unhappy, and bless the moment in which he can get rid of them."
18:18	N:N	N:N	"What are you thinking of?" replied the other.
19:19	N:N	N:N	"Now see; I will place them by the door; some one will take them instead of his own, and he will be the happy man."
20:20	N:N	N:N	This was the end of their conversation.
21:21	N:N	-:N	COUNSELLOR WHAT HAPPENED TO THE COUNSELLOR
22:22	N:N	N:N	IT was late when Counsellor Knapp, lost in thought about the times of King Hans, desired to return home; and fate so ordered it that he put on the goloshes of Fortune instead of his own, and walked out into the East Street.
23:23	N:N	N:+	Through the magic power of the goloshes, he was at once carried back three hundred years, to the times of King Hans, for which he had been longing when he put them on.
24:24	N:N	N:+	Therefore he immediately set his foot into the mud and mire of the street, which in those days possessed no pavement.
25:25	Su-:A	-:+	"Why, this is horrible; how dreadfully dirty it is!" said the counsellor; and the whole pavement has vanished, and the lamps are all out."
26:26	N:N	-:N	The moon had not yet risen high enough to penetrate the thick foggy air, and all the objects around him were confused together in the darkness.
27:27	N:N	N:N	At the nearest corner, a lamp hung before a picture of the Madonna; but the light it gave was almost useless, for he only perceived it when he came quite close and his eyes fell on the painted figures of the Mother and Child.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"That is most likely a museum of art," thought he, "and they have forgotten to take down the sign."
29:29	N:N	N:N	Two men, in the dress of olden times, passed by him.
30:30	Su-:Su-	-:N	"What odd figures!" thought he; "they must be returning from some masquerade."
31:31	N:N	-:-	Suddenly he heard the sound of a drum and fifes, and then a blazing light from torches shone upon him.
32:32	Su+:Su-	+:-	The counsellor stared with astonishment as he beheld a most strange procession pass before him.
33:33	N:N	N:+	First came a whole troop of drummers, beating their drums very cleverly; they were followed by life-guards, with longbows and crossbows.
34:34	N:N	N:+	The principal person in the procession was a clerical-looking gentleman.
35:35	N:Su+	N:+	The astonished counsellor asked what it all meant, and who the gentleman might be.
36:36	N:N	N:+	"That is the bishop of Zealand."
37:37	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Good gracious!" he exclaimed; "what in the world has happened to the bishop? what can he be thinking about?"
38:38	Su-:N	-:-	Then he shook his head and said, "It cannot possibly be the bishop himself."
39:39	N:N	N:N	While musing on this strange affair, and without looking to the right or left, he walked on through East Street and over Highbridge Place.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The bridge, which he supposed led to Palace Square, was nowhere to be found; but instead, he saw a bank and some shallow water, and two people, who sat in a boat.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Does the gentleman wish to be ferried over the Holm?" asked one.
42:42	N:N	N:N	"To the Holm!" exclaimed the counsellor, not knowing in what age he was now existing; "I want to go to Christian's Haven, in Little Turf Street."
43:43	N:N	N:+	The men stared at him.
44:44	A:F	A:-	"Pray tell me where the bridge is!" said he.
45:45	A:N	A:A	"It is shameful that the lamps are not lighted here, and it is as muddy as if one were walking in a marsh."
46:46	N:N	N:N	But the more he talked with the boatmen the less they could understand each other.
47:47	A:A	A:A	"I don't understand your outlandish talk," he cried at last, angrily turning his back upon them.
48:48	N:N	N:A	He could not, however, find the bridge nor any railings.
49:49	D:N	D:A	"What a scandalous condition this place is in," said he; never, certainly, had he found his own times so miserable as on this evening.
50:50	N:N	D:A	"I think it will be better for me to take a coach; but where are they?"
51:51	N:N	D:-	There was not one to be seen!
52:52	N:N	D:N	"I shall be obliged to go back to the king's new market," said he, "where there are plenty of carriages standing, or I shall never reach Christian's Haven."
53:53	N:N	N:-	Then he went towards East Street, and had nearly passed through it, when the moon burst forth from a cloud.
54:54	Su-:Su-	-:N	"Dear me, what have they been erecting here?" he cried, as he caught sight of the East gate, which in olden times used to stand at the end of East Street.
55:55	N:N	N:N	However, he found an opening through which he passed, and came out upon where he expected to find the new market.
56:56	N:N	N:N	Nothing was to be seen but an open meadow, surrounded by a few bushes, through which ran a broad canal or stream.
57:57	N:N	N:N	A few miserable-looking wooden booths, for the accommodation of Dutch watermen, stood on the opposite shore.
58:58	Su-:N	-:-	"Either I behold a fata morgana, or I must be tipsy," groaned the counsellor.
59:59	N:N	-:-	"What can it be?
60:60	Su-:N	-:-	What is the matter with me?"
61:61	N:N	-:-	He turned back in the full conviction that he must be ill.
62:62	N:N	-:N	In walking through the street this time, he examined the houses more closely; he found that most of them were built of lath and plaster, and many had only a thatched roof.
63:63	Su-:A	-:N	"I am certainly all wrong," said he, with a sigh; and yet I only drank one glass of punch.
64:64	A:N	-:A	But I cannot bear even that, and it was very foolish to give us punch and hot salmon; I shall speak about it to our hostess, the agent's lady.
65:65	N:N	-:-	Suppose I were to go back now and say how ill I feel, I fear it would look so ridiculous, and it is not very likely that I should find any one up."
66:66	N:N	-:-	Then he looked for the house, but it was not in existence.
67:67	F:F	-:-	"This is really frightful; I cannot even recognize East Street.
68:68	Su-:N	-:-	Not a shop to be seen; nothing but old, wretched, tumble-down houses, just as if I were at Roeskilde or Ringstedt.
69:69	F:F	-:N	Oh, I really must be ill!
70:70	N:N	-:-	It is no use to stand upon ceremony.
71:71	N:N	-:-	But where in the world is the agent's house.
72:72	N:N	-:N	There is a house, but it is not his; and people still up in it, I can hear.
73:73	Su-:N	-:-	Oh dear!
74:74	Su-:N	-:-	I certainly am very queer."
75:75	N:N	N:N	As he reached the half-open door, he saw a light and went in.
76:76	N:N	N:N	It was a tavern of the olden times, and seemed a kind of beershop.
77:77	N:N	N:N	The room had the appearance of a Dutch interior.
78:78	N:N	N:N	A number of people, consisting of seamen, Copenhagen citizens, and a few scholars, sat in deep conversation over their mugs, and took very little notice of the new comer.
79:79	N:N	N:N	"Pardon me," said the counsellor, addressing the landlady, "I do not feel quite well, and I should be much obliged if you will send for a fly to take me to Christian's Haven."
80:80	D:N	D:N	The woman stared at him and shook her head.
81:81	N:N	N:-	Then she spoke to him in German.
82:82	N:N	N:-	The counsellor supposed from this that she did not understand Danish; he therefore repeated his request in German.
83:83	N:N	N:-	This, as well as his singular dress, convinced the woman that he was a foreigner.
84:84	N:N	N:-	She soon understood, however, that he did not find himself quite well, and therefore brought him a mug of water.
85:85	N:N	N:N	It had something of the taste of seawater, certainly, although it had been drawn from the well outside.
86:86	N:N	N:-	Then the counsellor leaned his head on his hand, drew a deep breath, and pondered over all the strange things that had happened to him.
87:87	N:Su-	N:-	"Is that to-day's number of the Day?" he asked, quite mechanically, as he saw the woman putting by a large piece of paper.
88:88	N:N	N:-	She did not understand what he meant, but she handed him the sheet; it was a woodcut, representing a meteor, which had appeared in the town of Cologne.
89:89	H:H	H:N	"That is very old," said the counsellor, becoming quite cheerful at the sight of this antique drawing.
90:90	H:N	H:N	"Where did you get this singular sheet?
91:91	N:N	H:N	It is very interesting, although the whole affair is a fable.
92:92	N:N	N:N	Meteors are easily explained in these days; they are northern lights, which are often seen, and are no doubt caused by electricity."
93:93	N:N	+:N	Those who sat near him, and heard what he said, looked at him in great astonishment, and one of them rose, took off his hat respectfully, and said in a very serious manner, "You must certainly be a very learned man, monsieur."
94:94	N:N	N:N	"Oh no," replied the counsellor; "I can only discourse on topics which every one should understand."
95:95	H:N	H:N	"Modestia is a beautiful virtue," said the man.
96:96	N:N	N:+	"Moreover, I must add to your speech mihi secus videtur; yet in this case I would suspend my judicium."
97:97	N:N	N:N	"May I ask to whom I have the pleasure of speaking?"
98:98	N:N	N:+	"I am a Bachelor of Divinity," said the man.
99:99	N:N	N:N	This answer satisfied the counsellor.
100:100	N:N	N:N	The title agreed with the dress.
101:101	N:N	N:N	"This is surely," thought he, "an old village schoolmaster, a perfect original, such as one meets with sometimes even in Jutland."
102:102	N:N	N:N	"This is not certainly a locus docendi," began the man; "still I must beg you to continue the conversation.
103:103	N:N	N:N	You must be well read in ancient lore."
104:104	H:N	H:N	"Oh yes," replied the counsellor; "I am very fond of reading useful old books, and modern ones as well, with the exception of every-day stories, of which we really have more than enough.
105:105	Su-:N	N:N	"Every-day stories?" asked the bachelor.
106:106	N:N	N:N	"Yes, I mean the new novels that we have at the present day."
107:107	H:N	H:N	"Oh," replied the man, with a smile; "and yet they are very witty, and are much read at Court.
108:108	N:N	N:N	The king likes especially the romance of Messeurs Iffven and Gaudian, which describes King Arthur and his knights of the round table.
109:109	N:N	H:N	He has joked about it with the gentlemen of his Court."
110:110	N:N	N:-	"Well, I have certainly not read that," replied the counsellor.
111:111	N:N	N:-	"I suppose it is quite new, and published by Heiberg."
112:112	N:N	N:N	"No," answered the man, "it is not by Heiberg; Godfred von Gehman brought it out."
113:113	N:N	N:N	"Oh, is he the publisher?
114:114	N:N	N:N	That is a very old name," said the counsellor; "was it not the name of the first publisher in Denmark?"
115:115	N:N	N:N	"Yes; and he is our first printer and publisher now," replied the scholar.
116:116	N:N	N:-	So far all had passed off very well; but now one of the citizens began to speak of a terrible pestilence which had been raging a few years before, meaning the plague of 1484.
117:117	N:N	N:N	The counsellor thought he referred to the cholera, and they could discuss this without finding out the mistake.
118:118	N:N	N:N	The war in 1490 was spoken of as quite recent.
119:119	N:N	N:N	The English pirates had taken some ships in the Channel in 1801, and the counsellor, supposing they referred to these, agreed with them in finding fault with the English.
120:120	N:N	N:A	The rest of the talk, however, was not so agreeable; every moment one contradicted the other.
121:121	N:N	N:A	The good bachelor appeared very ignorant, for the simplest remark of the counsellor seemed to him either too bold or too fantastic.
122:122	N:N	N:A	They stared at each other, and when it became worse the bachelor spoke in Latin, in the hope of being better understood; but it was all useless.
123:123	N:N	N:N	"How are you now?" asked the landlady, pulling the counsellor's sleeve.
124:124	N:N	N:N	Then his recollection returned to him.
125:125	N:N	N:N	In the course of conversation he had forgotten all that had happened previously.
126:126	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Goodness me! where am I?" said he.
127:127	Su-:Su-	-:-	It bewildered him as he thought of it.
128:128	N:N	N:N	"We will have some claret, or mead, or Bremen beer," said one of the guests; "will you drink with us?"
129:129	N:N	N:N	Two maids came in.
130:130	N:N	N:N	One of them had a cap on her head of two colors.
131:131	N:N	N:N	They poured out the wine, bowed their heads, and withdrew.
132:132	N:F	-:-	The counsellor felt a cold shiver run all over him.
133:133	Su-:N	-:N	"What is this? what does it mean?" said he; but he was obliged to drink with them, for they overpowered the good man with their politeness.
134:134	N:N	-:N	He became at last desperate; and when one of them said he was tipsy, he did not doubt the man's word in the least- only begged them to get a droschky; and then they thought he was speaking the Muscovite language.
135:135	N:N	-:-	Never before had he been in such rough and vulgar company.
136:136	Su-:N	-:-	"One might believe that the country was going back to heathenism," he observed.
137:137	D:Sa	D:-	"This is the most terrible moment of my life."
138:138	N:N	N:N	Just then it came into his mind that he would stoop under the table, and so creep to the door.
139:139	N:N	+:+	He tried it; but before he reached the entry, the rest discovered what he was about, and seized him by the feet, when, luckily for him, off came the goloshes, and with them vanished the whole enchantment.
140:140	N:N	+:N	The counsellor now saw quite plainly a lamp, and a large building behind it; everything looked familiar and beautiful.
141:141	N:N	N:+	He was in East Street, as it now appears; he lay with his legs turned towards a porch, and just by him sat the watchman asleep.
142:142	Su+:N	+:+	"Is it possible that I have been lying here in the street dreaming?" said he.
143:143	H:H	H:H	"Yes, this is East Street; how beautifully bright and gay it looks!
144:144	Su-:Su-	-:-	It is quite shocking that one glass of punch should have upset me like this."
145:145	N:N	N:N	Two minutes afterwards he sat in a droschky, which was to drive him to Christian's Haven.
146:146	H:N	H:N	He thought of all the terror and anxiety which he had undergone, and felt thankful from his heart for the reality and comfort of modern times, which, with all their errors, were far better than those in which he so lately found himself.
147:147	N:N	N:N	THE WATCHMAN'S ADVENTURES
148:148	Su+:N	+:N	"Well, I declare, there lies a pair of goloshes," said the watchman.
149:149	N:N	N:N	"No doubt, they belong to the lieutenant who lives up stairs.
150:150	N:N	N:N	They are lying just by his door."
151:151	N:N	N:N	Gladly would the honest man have rung, and given them in, for a light was still burning, but he did not wish to disturb the other people in the house; so he let them lie.
152:152	N:N	N:N	"These things must keep the feet very warm," said he; "they are of such nice soft leather."
153:153	N:N	N:N	Then he tried them on, and they fitted his feet exactly.
154:154	N:N	N:N	"Now," said he, "how droll things are in this world!
155:155	N:N	N:N	There's that man can lie down in his warm bed, but he does not do so.
156:156	N:N	N:N	There he goes pacing up and down the room.
157:157	N:N	N:N	He ought to be a happy man.
158:158	N:N	N:N	He has neither wife nor children, and he goes out into company every evening.
159:159	N:N	N:N	Oh, I wish I were he; then I should be a happy man."
160:160	N:N	N:-	As he uttered this wish, the goloshes which he had put on took effect, and the watchman at once became the lieutenant.
161:161	N:N	N:-	There he stood in his room, holding a little piece of pink paper between his fingers, on which was a poem,- a poem written by the lieutenant himself.
162:162	N:N	N:N	Who has not had, for once in his life, a moment of poetic inspiration? and at such a moment, if the thoughts are written down, they flow in poetry.
163:163	N:N	N:N	The following verses were written on the pink paper:-
164:164	N:N	N:-	"OH WERE I RICH!
165:165	N:N	N:-	"Oh were I rich!
166:166	N:N	N:N	How oft, in youth's bright hour, When youthful pleasures banish every care, I longed for riches but to gain a power, The sword and plume and uniform to wear!
167:167	N:Sa	N:-	The riches and the honor came for me; Yet still my greatest wealth was poverty: Ah, help and pity me!
168:168	N:N	N:N	"Once in my youthful hours, when gay and free, A maiden loved me; and her gentle kiss, Rich in its tender love and purity, Taught me, alas! too much of earthly bliss.
169:169	N:N	N:N	Dear child!
170:170	N:N	N:N	She only thought of youthful glee; She loved no wealth, but fairy tales and me.
171:171	N:Sa	N:-	Thou knowest: ah, pity me!
172:172	N:N	N:N	"Oh were I rich! again is all my prayer: That child is now a woman, fair and free, As good and beautiful as angels are.
173:173	N:N	N:N	Oh, were I rich in lovers' poetry, To tell my fairy tale, love's richest lore!
174:174	N:N	N:N	But no; I must be silent- I am poor.
175:175	N:N	N:N	Ah, wilt thou pity me?
176:176	N:N	N:S	"Oh were I rich in truth and peace below, I need not then my poverty bewail.
177:177	N:N	N:S	To thee I dedicate these lines of woe; Wilt thou not understand the mournful tale?
178:178	N:N	N:S	A leaf on which my sorrows I relate- Dark story of a darker night of fate.
179:179	N:N	N:S	Ah, bless and pity me!"
180:180	N:N	N:N	"Well, yes; people write poems when they are in love, but a wise man will not print them.
181:181	N:N	N:S	A lieutenant in love, and poor.
182:182	N:N	N:S	This is a triangle, or more properly speaking, the half of the broken die of fortune."
183:183	Sa:Sa	S:S	The lieutenant felt this very keenly, and therefore leaned his head against the window-frame, and sighed deeply.
184:184	Sa:N	S:S	"The poor watchman in the street," said he, "is far happier than I am.
185:185	N:N	S:S	He knows not what I call poverty.
186:186	N:N	S:S	He has a home, a wife and children, who weep at his sorrow and rejoice at his joy.
187:187	N:Sa	N:S	Oh, how much happier I should be could I change my being and position with him, and pass through life with his humble expectations and hopes!
188:188	N:Sa	N:S	Yes, he is indeed happier than I am."
189:189	N:N	N:+	At this moment the watchman again became a watchman; for having, through the goloshes of Fortune, passed into the existence of the lieutenant, and found himself less contented than he expected, he had preferred his former condition, and wished himself again a watchman.
190:190	Su-:N	-:-	"That was an ugly dream," said he, "but droll enough.
191:191	N:N	-:N	It seemed to me as if I were the lieutenant up yonder, but there was no happiness for me.
192:192	N:N	N:+	I missed my wife and the little ones, who are always ready to smother me with kisses."
193:193	N:N	N:N	He sat down again and nodded, but he could not get the dream out of his thoughts, and he still had the goloshes on his feet.
194:194	N:N	N:N	A falling star gleamed across the sky.
195:195	Su+:Su+	+:+	"There goes one!" cried he.
196:196	N:N	N:N	"However, there are quite enough left; I should very much like to examine these a little nearer, especially the moon, for that could not slip away under one's hands.
197:197	N:N	N:N	The student, for whom my wife washes, says that when we die we shall fly from one star to another.
198:198	N:N	N:N	If that were true, it would be very delightful, but I don't believe it.
199:199	N:N	N:N	I wish I could make a little spring up there now; I would willingly let my body lie here on the steps."
200:200	N:N	N:-	There are certain things in the world which should be uttered very cautiously; doubly so when the speaker has on his feet the goloshes of Fortune.
201:201	N:N	N:-	Now we shall hear what happened to the watchman.
202:202	N:N	N:N	Nearly every one is acquainted with the great power of steam; we have proved it by the rapidity with which we can travel, both on a railroad or in a steamship across the sea.
203:203	N:N	N:N	But this speed is like the movements of the sloth, or the crawling march of the snail, when compared to the swiftness with which light travels; light flies nineteen million times faster than the fleetest race-horse, and electricity is more rapid still.
204:204	N:N	N:N	Death is an electric shock which we receive in our hearts, and on the wings of electricity the liberated soul flies away swiftly, the light from the sun travels to our earth ninety-five millions of miles in eight minutes and a few seconds; but on the wings of electricity, the mind requires only a second to accomplish the same distance.
205:205	N:N	N:N	The space between the heavenly bodies is, to thought, no farther than the distance which we may have to walk from one friend's house to another in the same town; yet this electric shock obliges us to use our bodies here below, unless, like the watchman, we have on the goloshes of Fortune.
206:206	N:N	N:N	In a very few seconds the watchman had travelled more than two hundred thousand miles to the moon, which is formed of a lighter material than our earth, and may be said to be as soft as new fallen snow.
207:207	N:N	N:N	He found himself on one of the circular range of mountains which we see represented in Dr. Madler's large map of the moon.
208:208	N:N	N:N	The interior had the appearance of a large hollow, bowl-shaped, with a depth about half a mile from the brim.
209:209	N:N	N:N	Within this hollow stood a large town; we may form some idea of its appearance by pouring the white of an egg into a glass of water.
210:210	N:N	N:N	The materials of which it was built seemed just as soft, and pictured forth cloudy turrets and sail-like terraces, quite transparent, and floating in the thin air.
211:211	N:N	N:N	Our earth hung over his head like a great dark red ball.
212:212	N:N	N:N	Presently he discovered a number of beings, which might certainly be called men, but were very different to ourselves.
213:213	N:N	N:N	A more fantastical imagination than Herschel's must have discovered these.
214:214	N:N	N:N	Had they been placed in groups, and painted, it might have been said, "What beautiful foliage!"
215:215	N:N	N:N	They had also a language of their own.
216:216	N:N	N:N	No one could have expected the soul of the watchman to understand it, and yet he did understand it, for our souls have much greater capabilities then we are inclined to believe.
217:217	N:N	N:N	Do we not, in our dreams, show a wonderful dramatic talent? each of our acquaintance appears to us then in his own character, and with his own voice; no man could thus imitate them in his waking hours.
218:218	N:N	N:N	How clearly, too, we are reminded of persons whom we have not seen for many years; they start up suddenly to the mind's eye with all their peculiarities as living realities.
219:219	N:N	N:N	In fact, this memory of the soul is a fearful thing; every sin, every sinful thought it can bring back, and we may well ask how we are to give account of "every idle word" that may have been whispered in the heart or uttered with the lips.
220:220	N:N	N:N	The spirit of the watchman therefore understood very well the language of the inhabitants of the moon.
221:221	N:N	N:A	They were disputing about our earth, and doubted whether it could be inhabited.
222:222	N:N	N:N	The atmosphere, they asserted, must be too dense for any inhabitants of the moon to exist there.
223:223	N:N	N:N	They maintained that the moon alone was inhabited, and was really the heavenly body in which the old world people lived.
224:224	N:N	N:N	They likewise talked politics.
225:225	N:N	N:N	But now we will descend to East Street, and see what happened to the watchman's body.
226:226	N:N	N:-	He sat lifeless on the steps.
227:227	N:N	N:-	His staff had fallen out of his hand, and his eyes stared at the moon, about which his honest soul was wandering.
228:228	N:N	N:-	"What is it o'clock, watchman?" inquired a passenger.
229:229	N:N	N:-	But there was no answer from the watchman.
230:230	N:N	N:-	The man then pulled his nose gently, which caused him to lose his balance.
231:231	N:N	N:-	The body fell forward, and lay at full length on the ground as one dead.
232:232	F:N	F:-	All his comrades were very much frightened, for he seemed quite dead; still they allowed him to remain after they had given notice of what had happened; and at dawn the body was carried to the hospital.
233:233	N:N	N:-	We might imagine it to be no jesting matter if the soul of the man should chance to return to him, for most probably it would seek for the body in East Street without being able to find it.
234:234	N:N	N:-	We might fancy the soul inquiring of the police, or at the address office, or among the missing parcels, and then at length finding it at the hospital.
235:235	N:N	N:N	But we may comfort ourselves by the certainty that the soul, when acting upon its own impulses, is wiser than we are; it is the body that makes it stupid.
236:236	N:N	N:N	As we have said, the watchman's body had been taken to the hospital, and here it was placed in a room to be washed.
237:237	N:N	N:+	Naturally, the first thing done here was to take off the goloshes, upon which the soul was instantly obliged to return, and it took the direct road to the body at once, and in a few seconds the man's life returned to him.
238:238	F:F	F:F	He declared, when he quite recovered himself, that this had been the most dreadful night he had ever passed; not for a hundred pounds would he go through such feelings again.
239:239	N:N	N:N	However, it was all over now.
240:240	N:N	N:N	The same day he was allowed to leave, but the goloshes remained at the hospital.
241:241	N:N	N:N	THE EVENTFUL MOMENT - A MOST UNUSUAL JOURNEY
242:242	N:N	N:N	Every inhabitant of Copenhagen knows what the entrance to Frederick's Hospital is like; but as most probably a few of those who read this little tale may not reside in Copenhagen, we will give a short description of it.
243:243	N:N	N:N	The hospital is separated from the street by an iron railing, in which the bars stand so wide apart that, it is said, some very slim patients have squeezed through, and gone to pay little visits in the town.
244:244	N:N	N:N	The most difficult part of the body to get through was the head; and in this case, as it often happens in the world, the small heads were the most fortunate.
245:245	N:N	N:N	This will serve as sufficient introduction to our tale.
246:246	N:N	N:N	One of the young volunteers, of whom, physically speaking, it might be said that he had a great head, was on guard that evening at the hospital.
247:247	N:N	N:N	The rain was pouring down, yet, in spite of these two obstacles, he wanted to go out just for a quarter of an hour; it was not worth while, he thought, to make a confidant of the porter, as he could easily slip through the iron railings.
248:248	N:N	N:N	There lay the goloshes, which the watchman had forgotten.
249:249	N:N	N:N	It never occurred to him that these could be goloshes of Fortune.
250:250	N:N	N:N	They would be very serviceable to him in this rainy weather, so he drew them on.
251:251	N:N	N:N	Now came the question whether he could squeeze through the palings; he certainly had never tried, so he stood looking at them.
252:252	N:N	N:+	"I wish to goodness my head was through," said he, and instantly, though it was so thick and large, it slipped through quite easily.
253:253	N:N	N:+	The goloshes answered that purpose very well, but his body had to follow, and this was impossible.
254:254	Su-:N	-:-	"I am too fat," he said; "I thought my head would be the worst, but I cannot get my body through, that is certain."
255:255	N:N	-:-	Then he tried to pull his head back again, but without success; he could move his neck about easily enough, and that was all.
256:256	A:A	-:-	His first feeling was one of anger, and then his spirits sank below zero.
257:257	N:N	-:-	The goloshes of Fortune had placed him in this terrible position, and unfortunately it never occurred to him to wish himself free.
258:258	N:N	-:-	No, instead of wishing he kept twisting about, yet did not stir from the spot.
259:259	N:N	N:-	The rain poured, and not a creature could be seen in the street.
260:260	N:N	-:-	The porter's bell he was unable to reach, and however was he to get loose!
261:261	N:N	-:-	He foresaw that he should have to stay there till morning, and then they must send for a smith to file away the iron bars, and that would be a work of time.
262:262	N:N	N:-	All the charity children would just be going to school: and all the sailors who inhabited that quarter of the town would be there to see him standing in the pillory.
263:263	N:N	N:-	What a crowd there would be.
264:264	A:Su-	A:-	"Ha," he cried, "the blood is rushing to my head, and I shall go mad.
265:265	Su-:N	-:-	I believe I am crazy already; oh, I wish I were free, then all these sensations would pass off."
266:266	N:N	N:-	This is just what he ought to have said at first.
267:267	N:N	N:-	The moment he had expressed the thought his head was free.
268:268	Su+:Su-	+:-	He started back, quite bewildered with the fright which the goloshes of Fortune had caused him.
269:269	N:N	N:-	But we must not suppose it was all over; no, indeed, there was worse to come yet.
270:270	N:N	N:-	The night passed, and the whole of the following day; but no one sent for the goloshes.
271:271	N:N	N:-	In the evening a declamatory performance was to take place at the amateur theatre in a distant street.
272:272	N:N	N:-	The house was crowded; among the audience was the young volunteer from the hospital, who seemed to have quite forgotten his adventures of the previous evening.
273:273	N:N	N:N	He had on the goloshes; they had not been sent for, and as the streets were still very dirty, they were of great service to him.
274:274	N:N	N:N	A new poem, entitled "My Aunt's Spectacles," was being recited.
275:275	N:N	N:N	It described these spectacles as possessing a wonderful power; if any one put them on in a large assembly the people appeared like cards, and the future events of ensuing years could be easily foretold by them.
276:276	N:N	N:N	The idea struck him that he should very much like to have such a pair of spectacles; for, if used rightly, they would perhaps enable him to see into the hearts of people, which he thought would be more interesting than to know what was going to happen next year; for future events would be sure to show themselves, but the hearts of people never.
277:277	N:N	N:N	"I can fancy what I should see in the whole row of ladies and gentlemen on the first seat, if I could only look into their hearts; that lady, I imagine, keeps a store for things of all descriptions; how my eyes would wander about in that collection; with many ladies I should no doubt find a large millinery establishment.
278:278	N:N	N:N	There is another that is perhaps empty, and would be all the better for cleaning out.
279:279	N:N	N:N	There may be some well stored with good articles.
280:280	N:N	N:N	Ah, yes," he sighed, "I know one, in which everything is solid, but a servant is there already, and that is the only thing against it.
281:281	N:N	N:-	I dare say from many I should hear the words, 'Please to walk in.'
282:282	N:N	N:N	I only wish I could slip into the hearts like a little tiny thought."
283:283	N:N	N:N	This was the word of command for the goloshes.
284:284	N:N	N:N	The volunteer shrunk up together, and commenced a most unusual journey through the hearts of the spectators in the first row.
285:285	N:N	N:N	The first heart he entered was that of a lady, but he thought he must have got into one of the rooms of an orthopedic institution where plaster casts of deformed limbs were hanging on the walls, with this difference, that the casts in the institution are formed when the patient enters, but here they were formed and preserved after the good people had left.
286:286	N:N	N:N	These were casts of the bodily and mental deformities of the lady's female friends carefully preserved.
287:287	N:N	N:N	Quickly he passed into another heart, which had the appearance of a spacious, holy church, with the white dove of innocence fluttering over the altar.
288:288	N:N	N:N	Gladly would he have fallen on his knees in such a sacred place; but he was carried on to another heart, still, however, listening to the tones of the organ, and feeling himself that he had become another and a better man.
289:289	N:N	N:H	The next heart was also a sanctuary, which he felt almost unworthy to enter; it represented a mean garret, in which lay a sick mother; but the warm sunshine streamed through the window, lovely roses bloomed in a little flowerbox on the roof, two blue birds sang of childlike joys, and the sick mother prayed for a blessing on her daughter.
290:290	N:N	N:N	Next he crept on his hands and knees through an overfilled butcher's shop; there was meat, nothing but meat, wherever he stepped; this was the heart of a rich, respectable man, whose name is doubtless in the directory.
291:291	N:N	N:N	Then he entered the heart of this man's wife; it was an old, tumble-down pigeon-house; the husband's portrait served as a weather-cock; it was connected with all the doors, which opened and shut just as the husband's decision turned.
292:292	N:N	N:N	The next heart was a complete cabinet of mirrors, such as can be seen in the Castle of Rosenberg.
293:293	N:N	N:N	But these mirrors magnified in an astonishing degree; in the middle of the floor sat, like the Grand Lama, the insignificant I of the owner, astonished at the contemplation of his own features.
294:294	N:N	N:N	At his next visit he fancied he must have got into a narrow needlecase, full of sharp needles: "Oh," thought he, "this must be the heart of an old maid;" but such was not the fact; it belonged to a young officer, who wore several orders, and was said to be a man of intellect and heart.
295:295	F:Su-	-:-	The poor volunteer came out of the last heart in the row quite bewildered.
296:296	N:N	-:-	He could not collect his thoughts, and imagined his foolish fancies had carried him away.
297:297	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Good gracious!" he sighed, "I must have a tendency to softening of the brain, and here it is so exceedingly hot that the blood is rushing to my head."
298:298	N:N	-:N	And then suddenly recurred to him the strange event of the evening before, when his head had been fixed between the iron railings in front of the hospital.
299:299	Su-:N	-:-	"That is the cause of it all!" he exclaimed, "I must do something in time.
300:300	N:N	N:+	A Russian bath would be a very good thing to begin with.
301:301	N:N	N:+	I wish I were lying on one of the highest shelves."
302:302	N:N	N:-	Sure enough, there he lay on an upper shelf of a vapor bath, still in his evening costume, with his boots and goloshes on, and the hot drops from the ceiling falling on his face.
303:303	N:Su-	N:-	"Ho!" he cried, jumping down and rushing towards the plunging bath.
304:304	N:N	N:-	The attendant stopped him with a loud cry, when he saw a man with all his clothes on.
305:305	N:N	N:-	The volunteer had, however, presence of mind enough to whisper, "It is for a wager;" but the first thing he did, when he reached his own room, was to put a large blister on his neck, and another on his back, that his crazy fit might be cured.
306:306	N:N	N:-	The next morning his back was very sore, which was all he gained by the goloshes of Fortune.
307:307	N:N	N:N	THE CLERK'S TRANSFORMATION
308:308	N:N	N:N	The watchman, whom we of course have not forgotten, thought, after a while, of the goloshes which he had found and taken to the hospital; so he went and fetched them.
309:309	N:N	N:N	But neither the lieutenant nor any one in the street could recognize them as their own, so he gave them up to the police.
310:310	N:N	N:N	"They look exactly like my own goloshes," said one of the clerks, examining the unknown articles, as they stood by the side of his own.
311:311	N:N	N:N	"It would require even more than the eye of a shoemaker to know one pair from the other."
312:312	N:N	N:N	"Master clerk," said a servant who entered with some papers.
313:313	N:N	N:N	The clerk turned and spoke to the man; but when he had done with him, he turned to look at the goloshes again, and now he was in greater doubt than ever as to whether the pair on the right or on the left belonged to him.
314:314	N:N	N:N	"Those that are wet must be mine," thought he; but he thought wrong, it was just the reverse.
315:315	N:N	N:N	The goloshes of Fortune were the wet pair; and, besides, why should not a clerk in a police office be wrong sometimes?
316:316	N:N	N:N	So he drew them on, thrust his papers into his pocket, placed a few manuscripts under his arm, which he had to take with him, and to make abstracts from at home.
317:317	N:N	N:N	Then, as it was Sunday morning and the weather very fine, he said to himself, "A walk to Fredericksburg will do me good:" so away he went.
318:318	N:N	N:N	There could not be a quieter or more steady young man than this clerk.
319:319	N:N	N:N	We will not grudge him this little walk, it was just the thing to do him good after sitting so much.
320:320	N:N	N:N	He went on at first like a mere automaton, without thought or wish; therefore the goloshes had no opportunity to display their magic power.
321:321	N:N	N:N	In the avenue he met with an acquaintance, one of our young poets, who told him that he intended to start on the following day on a summer excursion.
322:322	N:N	N:N	"Are you really going away so soon?" asked the clerk.
323:323	H:N	H:H	"What a free, happy man you are.
324:324	N:N	H:H	You can roam about where you will, while such as we are tied by the foot."
325:325	N:N	N:N	"But it is fastened to the bread-tree," replied the poet.
326:326	N:N	N:N	"You need have no anxiety for the morrow; and when you are old there is a pension for you."
327:327	N:N	H:H	"Ah, yes; but you have the best of it," said the clerk; "it must be so delightful to sit and write poetry.
328:328	N:N	H:H	The whole world makes itself agreeable to you, and then you are your own master.
329:329	N:N	N:N	You should try how you would like to listen to all the trivial things in a court of justice."
330:330	N:N	N:N	The poet shook his head, so also did the clerk; each retained his own opinion, and so they parted.
331:331	D:N	N:N	"They are strange people, these poets," thought the clerk.
332:332	N:N	N:-	"I should like to try what it is to have a poetic taste, and to become a poet myself.
333:333	N:N	N:-	I am sure I should not write such mournful verses as they do.
334:334	H:N	H:N	This is a splendid spring day for a poet, the air is so remarkably clear, the clouds are so beautiful, and the green grass has such a sweet smell.
335:335	H:N	H:H	For many years I have not felt as I do at this moment."
336:336	N:N	N:-	We perceive, by these remarks, that he had already become a poet.
337:337	N:N	N:N	By most poets what he had said would be considered common-place, or as the Germans call it, "insipid."
338:338	N:N	N:-	It is a foolish fancy to look upon poets as different to other men.
339:339	N:N	N:N	There are many who are more the poets of nature than those who are professed poets.
340:340	N:N	N:N	The difference is this, the poet's intellectual memory is better; he seizes upon an idea or a sentiment, until he can embody it, clearly and plainly in words, which the others cannot do.
341:341	N:N	N:N	But the transition from a character of every-day life to one of a more gifted nature is a great transition; and so the clerk became aware of the change after a time.
342:342	H:H	H:N	"What a delightful perfume," said he; "it reminds me of the violets at Aunt Lora's.
343:343	N:N	N:N	Ah, that was when I was a little boy.
344:344	N:Su+	N:N	Dear me, how long it seems since I thought of those days!
345:345	N:N	N:N	She was a good old maiden lady! she lived yonder, behind the Exchange.
346:346	N:N	N:N	She always had a sprig or a few blossoms in water, let the winter be ever so severe.
347:347	N:N	N:H	I could smell the violets, even while I was placing warm penny pieces against the frozen panes to make peep-holes, and a pretty view it was on which I peeped.
348:348	N:N	N:-	Out in the river lay the ships, icebound, and forsaken by their crews; a screaming crow represented the only living creature on board.
349:349	N:N	N:H	But when the breezes of spring came, everything started into life.
350:350	N:N	N:N	Amidst shouting and cheers the ships were tarred and rigged, and then they sailed to foreign lands.
351:351	N:N	N:N	"I remain here, and always shall remain, sitting at my post at the police office, and letting others take passports to distant lands.
352:352	N:Sa	N:N	Yes, this is my fate," and he sighed deeply.
353:353	N:N	N:N	Suddenly he paused.
354:354	Su-:Su-	-:N	"Good gracious, what has come over me?
355:355	Su-:H	-:N	I never felt before as I do now; it must be the air of spring.
356:356	H:H	H:H	It is overpowering, and yet it is delightful."
357:357	N:N	N:N	He felt in his pockets for some of his papers.
358:358	N:N	N:N	"These will give me something else to think of," said he.
359:359	N:N	N:N	Casting his eyes on the first page of one, he read, "'Mistress Sigbirth; an original Tragedy, in Five Acts.'
360:360	Su+:N	+:N	What is this?- in my own handwriting, too!
361:361	N:N	N:N	Have I written this tragedy?"
362:362	N:N	N:N	He read again, "'The Intrigue on the Promenade; or, the Fast-Day.
363:363	N:N	N:N	A Vaudeville.'
364:364	Su+:N	+:N	However did I get all this?
365:365	N:N	+:N	Some one must have put them into my pocket.
366:366	Su+:N	+:N	And here is a letter!"
367:367	N:N	N:N	It was from the manager of a theatre; the pieces were rejected, not at all in polite terms.
368:368	N:N	N:N	"Hem, hem!" said he, sitting down on a bench; his thoughts were very elastic, and his heart softened strangely.
369:369	N:N	N:N	Involuntarily he seized one of the nearest flowers; it was a little, simple daisy.
370:370	N:N	N:N	All that botanists can say in many lectures was explained in a moment by this little flower.
371:371	N:N	N:N	It spoke of the glory of its birth; it told of the strength of the sunlight, which had caused its delicate leaves to expand, and given to it such sweet perfume.
372:372	N:N	N:N	The struggles of life which arouse sensations in the bosom have their type in the tiny flowers.
373:373	N:N	N:N	Air and light are the lovers of the flowers, but light is the favored one; towards light it turns, and only when light vanishes does it fold its leaves together, and sleep in the embraces of the air."
374:374	N:N	N:N	"It is light that adorns me," said the flower.
375:375	N:N	N:N	"But the air gives you the breath of life," whispered the poet.
376:376	N:N	N:N	Just by him stood a boy, splashing with his stick in a marshy ditch.
377:377	N:N	N:N	The water-drops spurted up among the green twigs, and the clerk thought of the millions of animalculae which were thrown into the air with every drop of water, at a height which must be the same to them as it would be to us if we were hurled beyond the clouds.
378:378	H:H	H:H	As the clerk thought of all these things, and became conscious of the great change in his own feelings, he smiled, and said to himself, "I must be asleep and dreaming; and yet, if so, how wonderful for a dream to be so natural and real, and to know at the same time too that it is but a dream.
379:379	N:N	H:N	I hope I shall be able to remember it all when I wake tomorrow.
380:380	N:N	H:N	My sensations seem most unaccountable.
381:381	N:N	H:N	I have a clear perception of everything as if I were wide awake.
382:382	N:N	N:N	I am quite sure if I recollect all this tomorrow, it will appear utterly ridiculous and absurd.
383:383	N:N	N:N	I have had this happen to me before.
384:384	N:N	N:N	It is with the clever or wonderful things we say or hear in dreams, as with the gold which comes from under the earth, it is rich and beautiful when we possess it, but when seen in a true light it is but as stones and withered leaves."
385:385	Sa:Sa	S:N	"Ah!" he sighed mournfully, as he gazed at the birds singing merrily, or hopping from branch to branch, "they are much better off than I. Flying is a glorious power.
386:386	N:N	N:H	Happy is he who is born with wings.
387:387	N:N	N:N	Yes, if I could change myself into anything I would be a little lark."
388:388	N:N	N:-	At the same moment his coat-tails and sleeves grew together and formed wings, his clothes changed to feathers, and his goloshes to claws.
389:389	H:H	H:-	He felt what was taking place, and laughed to himself.
390:390	Su+:N	+:-	"Well, now it is evident I must be dreaming; but I never had such a wild dream as this."
391:391	N:N	N:-	And then he flew up into the green boughs and sang, but there was no poetry in the song, for his poetic nature had left him.
392:392	N:N	N:N	The goloshes, like all persons who wish to do a thing thoroughly, could only attend to one thing at a time.
393:393	N:N	N:N	He wished to be a poet, and he became one.
394:394	N:N	N:N	Then he wanted to be a little bird, and in this change he lost the characteristics of the former one.
395:395	H:N	H:H	"Well," thought he, "this is charming; by day I sit in a police-office, amongst the dryest law papers, and at night I can dream that I am a lark, flying about in the gardens of Fredericksburg.
396:396	N:N	H:N	Really a complete comedy could be written about it."
397:397	N:N	N:N	Then he flew down into the grass, turned his head about in every direction, and tapped his beak on the bending blades of grass, which, in proportion to his size, seemed to him as long as the palm-leaves in northern Africa.
398:398	N:N	N:N	In another moment all was darkness around him.
399:399	N:N	-:-	It seemed as if something immense had been thrown over him.
400:400	A:F	A:-	A sailor boy had flung his large cap over the bird, and a hand came underneath and caught the clerk by the back and wings so roughly, that he squeaked, and then cried out in his alarm, "You impudent rascal, I am a clerk in the police-office!" but it only sounded to the boy like "tweet, tweet;" so he tapped the bird on the beak, and walked away with him.
401:401	N:N	N:-	In the avenue he met two school-boys, who appeared to belong to a better class of society, but whose inferior abilities kept them in the lowest class at school.
402:402	N:N	N:N	These boys bought the bird for eightpence, and so the clerk returned to Copenhagen.
403:403	N:N	N:-	"It is well for me that I am dreaming," he thought; "otherwise I should become really angry.
404:404	N:N	N:N	First I was a poet, and now I am a lark.
405:405	N:N	N:N	It must have been the poetic nature that changed me into this little creature.
406:406	N:Sa	N:-	It is a miserable story indeed, especially now I have fallen into the hands of boys.
407:407	N:N	N:N	I wonder what will be the end of it."
408:408	N:A	N:N	The boys carried him into a very elegant room, where a stout, pleasant-looking lady received them, but she was not at all gratified to find that they had brought a lark- a common field-bird as she called it.
409:409	N:N	N:N	However, she allowed them for one day to place the bird in an empty cage that hung near the window.
410:410	H:H	H:N	"It will please Polly perhaps," she said, laughing at a large gray parrot, who was swinging himself proudly on a ring in a handsome brass cage.
411:411	N:N	N:N	"It is Polly's birthday," she added in a simpering tone, "and the little field-bird has come to offer his congratulations."
412:412	N:N	N:N	Polly did not answer a single word, he continued to swing proudly to and fro; but a beautiful canary, who had been brought from his own warm, fragrant fatherland, the summer previous, began to sing as loud as he could.
413:413	D:A	D:-	"You screamer!" said the lady, throwing a white handkerchief over the cage.
414:414	N:N	N:-	"Tweet, tweet," sighed he, "what a dreadful snowstorm!" and then he became silent.
415:415	N:N	N:N	The clerk, or as the lady called him the field-bird, was placed in a little cage close to the canary, and not far from the parrot.
416:416	N:N	N:N	The only human speech which Polly could utter, and which she sometimes chattered forth most comically, was "Now let us be men."
417:417	N:N	N:N	All besides was a scream, quite as unintelligible as the warbling of the canary-bird, excepting to the clerk, who being now a bird, could understand his comrades very well.
418:418	N:N	N:N	"I flew beneath green palm-trees, and amidst the blooming almond-trees," sang the canary.
419:419	N:N	H:N	"I flew with my brothers and sisters over beautiful flowers, and across the clear, bright sea, which reflected the waving foliage in its glittering depths; and I have seen many gay parrots, who could relate long and delightful stories.
420:420	N:N	N:N	"They were wild birds," answered the parrot, "and totally uneducated.
421:421	N:N	N:N	Now let us be men.
422:422	N:N	N:N	Why do you not laugh?
423:423	N:N	N:N	If the lady and her visitors can laugh at this, surely you can.
424:424	N:N	N:N	It is a great failing not to be able to appreciate what is amusing.
425:425	N:N	N:N	Now let us be men."
426:426	N:N	N:N	"Do you remember," said the canary, "the pretty maidens who used to dance in the tents that were spread out beneath the sweet blossoms?
427:427	N:N	N:N	Do you remember the delicious fruit and the cooling juice from the wild herbs?"
428:428	N:N	N:N	"Oh, yes," said the parrot; "but here I am much better off.
429:429	N:N	N:N	I am well fed, and treated politely.
430:430	N:N	N:N	I know that I have a clever head; and what more do I want?
431:431	N:N	N:N	Let us be men now.
432:432	N:N	N:N	You have a soul for poetry.
433:433	N:N	N:N	I have deep knowledge and wit.
434:434	N:N	N:N	You have genius, but no discretion.
435:435	D:N	D:N	You raise your naturally high notes so much, that you get covered over.
436:436	D:N	D:N	They never serve me so.
437:437	N:N	N:N	Oh, no; I cost them something more than you.
438:438	N:N	N:N	I keep them in order with my beak, and fling my wit about me.
439:439	N:N	N:N	Now let us be men.
440:440	N:N	N:N	"O my warm, blooming fatherland," sang the canary bird, "I will sing of thy dark-green trees and thy quiet streams, where the bending branches kiss the clear, smooth water.
441:441	N:N	N:N	I will sing of the joy of my brothers and sisters, as their shining plumage flits among the dark leaves of the plants which grow wild by the springs."
442:442	N:N	N:N	"Do leave off those dismal strains," said the parrot; "sing something to make us laugh; laughter is the sign of the highest order of intellect.
443:443	N:N	N:N	Can a dog or a horse laugh?
444:444	N:N	N:N	No, they can cry; but to man alone is the power of laughter given.
445:445	H:H	H:N	Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Polly, and repeated his witty saying, "Now let us be men."
446:446	N:N	N:N	"You little gray Danish bird," said the canary, "you also have become a prisoner.
447:447	N:N	N:N	It is certainly cold in your forests, but still there is liberty there.
448:448	Su+:N	+:N	Fly out! they have forgotten to close the cage, and the window is open at the top.
449:449	Su+:N	+:+	Fly, fly!"
450:450	N:N	-:-	Instinctively, the clerk obeyed, and left the cage; at the same moment the half-opened door leading into the next room creaked on its hinges, and, stealthily, with green fiery eyes, the cat crept in and chased the lark round the room.
451:451	F:F	F:F	The canary-bird fluttered in his cage, and the parrot flapped his wings and cried, "Let us be men;" the poor clerk, in the most deadly terror, flew through the window, over the houses, and through the streets, till at length he was obliged to seek a resting-place.
452:452	N:N	N:N	A house opposite to him had a look of home.
453:453	N:N	N:N	A window stood open; he flew in, and perched upon the table.
454:454	N:N	N:N	It was his own room.
455:455	N:N	N:+	"Let us be men now," said he, involuntarily imitating the parrot; and at the same moment he became a clerk again, only that he was sitting on the table.
456:456	Su+:Su-	+:-	"Heaven preserve us!" said he; "How did I get up here and fall asleep in this way?
457:457	N:N	N:-	It was an uneasy dream too that I had.
458:458	N:N	N:N	The whole affair appears most absurd.
459:459	N:N	N:N	THE BEST THING THE GOLOSHES DID
460:460	N:N	N:N	Early on the following morning, while the clerk was still in bed, his neighbor, a young divinity student, who lodged on the same storey, knocked at his door, and then walked in.
461:461	N:N	N:N	"Lend me your goloshes," said he; "it is so wet in the garden, but the sun is shining brightly.
462:462	N:N	N:N	I should like to go out there and smoke my pipe."
463:463	N:N	N:N	He put on the goloshes, and was soon in the garden, which contained only one plum-tree and one apple-tree; yet, in a town, even a small garden like this is a great advantage.
464:464	N:N	N:N	The student wandered up and down the path; it was just six o'clock, and he could hear the sound of the post-horn in the street.
465:465	H:N	N:H	"Oh, to travel, to travel!" cried he; "there is no greater happiness in the world: it is the height of my ambition.
466:466	N:N	N:N	This restless feeling would be stilled, if I could take a journey far away from this country.
467:467	N:N	N:+	I should like to see beautiful Switzerland, to travel through Italy, and,"- It was well for him that the goloshes acted immediately, otherwise he might have been carried too far for himself as well as for us.
468:468	N:N	N:-	In a moment he found himself in Switzerland, closely packed with eight others in the diligence.
469:469	N:N	-:-	His head ached, his back was stiff, and the blood had ceased to circulate, so that his feet were swelled and pinched by his boots.
470:470	N:N	-:-	He wavered in a condition between sleeping and waking.
471:471	N:N	N:N	In his right-hand pocket he had a letter of credit; in his left-hand pocket was his passport; and a few louis d'ors were sewn into a little leather bag which he carried in his breast-pocket.
472:472	N:N	-:-	Whenever he dozed, he dreamed that he had lost one or another of these possessions; then he would awake with a start, and the first movements of his hand formed a triangle from his right-hand pocket to his breast, and from his breast to his left-hand pocket, to feel whether they were all safe.
473:473	N:N	N:-	Umbrellas, sticks, and hats swung in the net before him, and almost obstructed the prospect, which was really very imposing; and as he glanced at it, his memory recalled the words of one poet at least, who has sung of Switzerland, and whose poems have not yet been printed:-
474:474	N:N	N:H	"How lovely to my wondering eyes Mont Blanc's fair summits gently rise; 'Tis sweet to breathe the mountain air,- If you have gold enough to spare."
475:475	Su+:N	-:N	Grand, dark, and gloomy appeared the landscape around him.
476:476	N:N	N:N	The pine-forests looked like little groups of moss on high rocks, whose summits were lost in clouds of mist.
477:477	N:N	N:N	Presently it began to snow, and the wind blew keen and cold.
478:478	Sa:N	N:N	"Ah," he sighed, "if I were only on the other side of the Alps now, it would be summer, and I should be able to get money on my letter of credit.
479:479	Sa:F	N:N	The anxiety I feel on this matter prevents me from enjoying myself in Switzerland.
480:480	Sa:N	N:N	Oh, I wish I was on the other side of the Alps."
481:481	N:N	+:N	And there, in a moment, he found himself, far away in the midst of Italy, between Florence and Rome, where the lake Thrasymene glittered in the evening sunlight like a sheet of molten gold between the dark blue mountains.
482:482	N:N	+:N	There, where Hannibal defeated Flaminius, the grape vines clung to each other with the friendly grasp of their green tendril fingers; while, by the wayside, lovely half-naked children were watching a herd of coal-black swine under the blossoms of fragrant laurel.
483:483	N:N	N:N	Could we rightly describe this picturesque scene, our readers would exclaim, "Delightful Italy!"
484:484	N:N	N:N	But neither the student nor either of his travelling companions felt the least inclination to think of it in this way.
485:485	N:N	-:N	Poisonous flies and gnats flew into the coach by thousands.
486:486	N:N	-:N	In vain they drove them away with a myrtle branch, the flies stung them notwithstanding.
487:487	N:N	-:-	There was not a man in the coach whose face was not swollen and disfigured with the stings.
488:488	N:N	-:-	The poor horses looked wretched; the flies settled on their backs in swarms, and they were only relieved when the coachmen got down and drove the creatures off.
489:489	N:N	-:-	As the sun set, an icy coldness filled all nature, not however of long duration.
490:490	N:N	N:-	It produced the feeling which we experience when we enter a vault at a funeral, on a summer's day; while the hills and the clouds put on that singular green hue which we often notice in old paintings, and look upon as unnatural until we have ourselves seen nature's coloring in the south.
491:491	Sa:N	S:-	It was a glorious spectacle; but the stomachs of the travellers were empty, their bodies exhausted with fatigue, and all the longings of their heart turned towards a resting-place for the night; but where to find one they knew not.
492:492	Sa:N	S:N	All the eyes were too eagerly seeking for this resting-place, to notice the beauties of nature.
493:493	N:N	N:N	The road passed through a grove of olive-trees; it reminded the student of the willow-trees at home.
494:494	N:N	N:N	Here stood a lonely inn, and close by it a number of crippled beggars had placed themselves; the brightest among them looked, to quote the words of Marryat, "like the eldest son of Famine who had just come of age."
495:495	N:N	N:-	The others were either blind, or had withered legs, which obliged them to creep about on their hands and knees, or they had shrivelled arms and hands without fingers.
496:496	N:N	N:-	It was indeed poverty arrayed in rags.
497:497	Sa:Su-	S:-	"Eccellenza, miserabili!" they exclaimed, stretching forth their diseased limbs.
498:498	N:N	N:-	The hostess received the travellers with bare feet, untidy hair, and a dirty blouse.
499:499	N:N	N:N	The doors were fastened together with string; the floors of the rooms were of brick, broken in many places; bats flew about under the roof; and as to the odor within- "Let us have supper laid in the stable," said one of the travellers; "then we shall know what we are breathing."
500:500	N:N	-:-	The windows were opened to let in a little fresh air, but quicker than air came in the withered arms and the continual whining sounds, "Miserabili, eccellenza.
501:501	N:N	-:N	On the walls were inscriptions, half of them against "la bella Italia."
502:502	N:N	N:-	The supper made its appearance at last.
503:503	N:N	-:-	It consisted of watery soup, seasoned with pepper and rancid oil.
504:504	N:N	N:N	This last delicacy played a principal part in the salad.
505:505	N:N	N:-	Musty eggs and roasted cocks'-combs were the best dishes on the table; even the wine had a strange taste, it was certainly a mixture.
506:506	N:N	N:-	At night, all the boxes were placed against the doors, and one of the travellers watched while the others slept.
507:507	N:N	N:-	The student's turn came to watch.
508:508	N:N	N:-	How close the air felt in that room; the heat overpowered him.
509:509	N:N	N:-	The gnats were buzzing about and stinging, while the miserabili, outside, moaned in their dreams.
510:510	N:N	N:-	"Travelling would be all very well," said the student of divinity to himself, "if we had no bodies, or if the body could rest while the soul if flying.
511:511	D:N	N:-	Wherever I go I feel a want which oppresses my heart, for something better presents itself at the moment; yes, something better, which shall be the best of all; but where is that to be found?
512:512	N:N	N:-	In fact, I know in my heart very well what I want.
513:513	N:N	N:-	I wish to attain the greatest of all happiness."
514:514	N:N	N:-	No sooner were the words spoken than he was at home.
515:515	N:N	N:-	Long white curtains shaded the windows of his room, and in the middle of the floor stood a black coffin, in which he now lay in the still sleep of death; his wish was fulfilled, his body was at rest, and his spirit travelling.
516:516	N:N	N:-	"Esteem no man happy until he is in his grave," were the words of Solon.
517:517	N:N	N:-	Here was a strong fresh proof of their truth.
518:518	N:N	N:-	Every corpse is a sphinx of immortality.
519:519	N:N	N:-	The sphinx in this sarcophagus might unveil its own mystery in the words which the living had himself written two days before-
520:520	N:N	N:N	"Stern death, thy chilling silence waketh dread; Yet in thy darkest hour there may be light.
521:521	N:N	N:N	Earth's garden reaper! from the grave's cold bed The soul on Jacob's ladder takes her flight.
522:522	N:N	N:N	Man's greatest sorrows often are a part Of hidden griefs, concealed from human eyes, Which press far heavier on the lonely heart Than now the earth that on his coffin lies."
523:523	N:N	N:N	Two figures were moving about the room; we know them both.
524:524	N:N	N:N	One was the fairy named Care, the other the messenger of Fortune.
525:525	N:N	N:N	They bent over the dead.
526:526	D:N	D:-	"Look!" said Care; "what happiness have your goloshes brought to mankind?"
527:527	N:N	N:N	"They have at least brought lasting happiness to him who slumbers here," she said.
528:528	D:N	D:-	"Not so," said Care, "he went away of himself, he was not summoned.
529:529	N:N	D:-	His mental powers were not strong enough to discern the treasures which he had been destined to discover.
530:530	N:N	N:N	I will do him a favor now."
531:531	N:N	N:N	And she drew the goloshes from his feet.
532:532	N:N	N:N	The sleep of death was ended, and the recovered man raised himself.
533:533	N:N	N:N	Care vanished, and with her the goloshes; doubtless she looked upon them as her own property.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE mayor stood at the open window.
1:1	N:N	N:N	He looked smart, for his shirt-frill, in which he had stuck a breast-pin, and his ruffles, were very fine.
2:2	N:N	N:N	He had shaved his chin uncommonly smooth, although he had cut himself slightly, and had stuck a piece of newspaper over the place.
3:3	N:N	N:N	"Hark 'ee, youngster!" cried he.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The boy to whom he spoke was no other than the son of a poor washer-woman, who was just going past the house.
5:5	N:N	N:N	He stopped, and respectfully took off his cap.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The peak of this cap was broken in the middle, so that he could easily roll it up and put it in his pocket.
7:7	N:N	N:N	He stood before the mayor in his poor but clean and well-mended clothes, with heavy wooden shoes on his feet, looking as humble as if it had been the king himself.
8:8	N:N	N:N	"You are a good and civil boy," said the mayor.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"I suppose your mother is busy washing the clothes down by the river, and you are going to carry that thing to her that you have in your pocket.
10:10	N:N	N:N	It is very bad for your mother.
11:11	N:N	N:N	How much have you got in it?"
12:12	F:N	N:N	"Only half a quartern," stammered the boy in a frightened voice.
13:13	N:N	N:N	"And she has had just as much this morning already?"
14:14	N:N	N:N	"No, it was yesterday," replied the boy.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"Two halves make a whole," said the mayor.
16:16	D:N	D:N	"She's good for nothing.
17:17	D:N	D:N	What a sad thing it is with these people.
18:18	D:N	D:-	Tell your mother she ought to be ashamed of herself.
19:19	D:N	D:-	Don't you become a drunkard, but I expect you will though.
20:20	D:N	D:S	Poor child! there, go now."
21:21	N:N	N:N	The boy went on his way with his cap in his hand, while the wind fluttered his golden hair till the locks stood up straight.
22:22	N:N	N:N	He turned round the corner of the street into the little lane that led to the river, where his mother stood in the water by her washing bench, beating the linen with a heavy wooden bar.
23:23	N:N	N:N	The floodgates at the mill had been drawn up, and as the water rolled rapidly on, the sheets were dragged along by the stream, and nearly overturned the bench, so that the washer-woman was obliged to lean against it to keep it steady.
24:24	N:N	N:N	"I have been very nearly carried away," she said; "it is a good thing that you are come, for I want something to strengthen me.
25:25	N:N	N:N	It is cold in the water, and I have stood here six hours.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Have you brought anything for me?"
27:27	N:N	N:-	The boy drew the bottle from his pocket, and the mother put it to her lips, and drank a little.
28:28	H:N	N:-	"Ah, how much good that does, and how it warms me," she said; "it is as good as a hot meal, and not so dear.
29:29	N:N	N:-	Drink a little, my boy; you look quite pale; you are shivering in your thin clothes, and autumn has really come.
30:30	Su-:N	-:-	Oh, how cold the water is!
31:31	N:N	N:-	I hope I shall not be ill.
32:32	N:N	N:-	But no, I must not be afraid of that.
33:33	N:N	N:-	Give me a little more, and you may have a sip too, but only a sip; you must not get used to it, my poor, dear child."
34:34	N:N	N:-	She stepped up to the bridge on which the boy stood as she spoke, and came on shore.
35:35	N:N	N:-	The water dripped from the straw mat which she had bound round her body, and from her gown.
36:36	Sa:N	N:N	"I work hard and suffer pain with my poor hands," said she, "but I do it willingly, that I may be able to bring you up honestly and truthfully, my dear boy."
37:37	N:N	N:N	At the same moment, a woman, rather older than herself, came towards them.
38:38	N:N	N:-	She was a miserable-looking object, lame of one leg, and with a large false curl hanging down over one of her eyes, which was blind.
39:39	N:N	N:-	This curl was intended to conceal the blind eye, but it made the defect only more visible.
40:40	N:N	N:-	She was a friend of the laundress, and was called, among the neighbors, "Lame Martha, with the curl."
41:41	Su-:N	-:-	"Oh, you poor thing; how you do work, standing there in the water!" she exclaimed.
42:42	N:N	N:-	"You really do need something to give you a little warmth, and yet spiteful people cry out about the few drops you take."
43:43	A:A	A:-	And then Martha repeated to the laundress, in a very few minutes, all that the mayor had said to her boy, which she had overheard; and she felt very angry that any man could speak, as he had done, of a mother to her own child, about the few drops she had taken; and she was still more angry because, on that very day, the mayor was going to have a dinner-party, at which there would be wine, strong, rich wine, drunk by the bottle.
44:44	A:N	A:-	"Many will take more than they ought, but they don't call that drinking!
45:45	A:A	A:-	They are all right, you are good for nothing indeed!" cried Martha indignantly.
46:46	Su-:N	-:-	"And so he spoke to you in that way, did he, my child?" said the washer-woman, and her lips trembled as she spoke.
47:47	N:N	-:-	"He says you have a mother who is good for nothing.
48:48	D:N	-:N	Well, perhaps he is right, but he should not have said it to my child.
49:49	Su-:N	-:-	How much has happened to me from that house!"
50:50	N:N	N:-	"Yes," said Martha; "I remember you were in service there, and lived in the house when the mayor's parents were alive; how many years ago that is.
51:51	N:N	N:-	Bushels of salt have been eaten since then, and people may well be thirsty," and Martha smiled.
52:52	N:N	N:N	"The mayor's great dinner-party to-day ought to have been put off, but the news came too late.
53:53	N:N	N:-	The footman told me the dinner was already cooked, when a letter came to say that the mayor's younger brother in Copenhagen is dead."
54:54	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Dead!" cried the laundress, turning pale as death.
55:55	N:N	-:-	"Yes, certainly," replied Martha; "but why do you take it so much to heart?
56:56	N:N	-:-	I suppose you knew him years ago, when you were in service there?"
57:57	Su-:Su-	-:-	"Is he dead?" she exclaimed.
58:58	Sa:Sa	-:-	"Oh, he was such a kind, good-hearted man, there are not many like him," and the tears rolled down her cheeks as she spoke.
59:59	Sa:Sa	-:-	Then she cried, "Oh, dear me; I feel quite ill: everything is going round me, I cannot bear it.
60:60	N:N	-:-	Is the bottle empty?" and she leaned against the plank.
61:61	Su-:N	-:-	"Dear me, you are ill indeed," said the other woman.
62:62	N:N	N:-	"Come, cheer up; perhaps it will pass off.
63:63	N:N	N:-	No, indeed, I see you are really ill; the best thing for me to do is to lead you home."
64:64	N:N	N:-	"But my washing yonder?"
65:65	N:N	N:-	"I will take care of that.
66:66	N:N	N:-	Come, give me your arm.
67:67	N:N	N:-	The boy can stay here and take care of the linen, and I'll come back and finish the washing; it is but a trifle."
68:68	Sa:N	N:-	The limbs of the laundress shook under her, and she said, "I have stood too long in the cold water, and I have had nothing to eat the whole day since the morning.
69:69	Sa:N	-:-	O kind Heaven, help me to get home; I am in a burning fever.
70:70	Sa:Sa	S:S	Oh, my poor child," and she burst into tears.
71:71	Sa:Sa	S:S	And he, poor boy, wept also, as he sat alone by the river, near to and watching the damp linen.
72:72	N:N	N:-	The two women walked very slowly.
73:73	N:N	-:S	The laundress slipped and tottered through the lane, and round the corner, into the street where the mayor lived; and just as she reached the front of his house, she sank down upon the pavement.
74:74	N:N	-:-	Many persons came round her, and Lame Martha ran into the house for help.
75:75	N:N	-:-	The mayor and his guests came to the window.
76:76	D:N	D:-	"Oh, it is the laundress," said he; "she has had a little drop too much.
77:77	D:N	D:S	She is good for nothing.
78:78	D:N	D:-	It is a sad thing for her pretty little son.
79:79	D:N	D:-	I like the boy very well; but the mother is good for nothing."
80:80	N:N	N:S	After a while the laundress recovered herself, and they led her to her poor dwelling, and put her to bed.
81:81	N:N	N:S	Kind Martha warmed a mug of beer for her, with butter and sugar- she considered this the best medicine- and then hastened to the river, washed and rinsed, badly enough, to be sure, but she did her best.
82:82	N:N	N:S	Then she drew the linen ashore, wet as it was, and laid it in a basket.
83:83	N:N	N:S	Before evening, she was sitting in the poor little room with the laundress.
84:84	N:N	N:S	The mayor's cook had given her some roasted potatoes and a beautiful piece of fat for the sick woman.
85:85	N:N	N:S	Martha and the boy enjoyed these good things very much; but the sick woman could only say that the smell was very nourishing, she thought.
86:86	N:N	N:S	By-and-by the boy was put to bed, in the same bed as the one in which his mother lay; but he slept at her feet, covered with an old quilt made of blue and white patchwork.
87:87	N:N	N:N	The laundress felt a little better by this time.
88:88	H:N	N:N	The warm beer had strengthened her, and the smell of the good food had been pleasant to her.
89:89	H:N	H:N	"Many thanks, you good soul," she said to Martha.
90:90	N:N	N:N	"Now the boy is asleep, I will tell you all.
91:91	N:N	N:N	He is soon asleep.
92:92	N:N	N:N	How gentle and sweet he looks as he lies there with his eyes closed!
93:93	N:N	N:N	He does not know how his mother has suffered; and Heaven grant he never may know it.
94:94	N:N	N:N	I was in service at the counsellor's, the father of the mayor, and it happened that the youngest of his sons, the student, came home.
95:95	N:N	N:N	I was a young wild girl then, but honest; that I can declare in the sight of Heaven.
96:96	N:N	N:N	The student was merry and gay, brave and affectionate; every drop of blood in him was good and honorable; a better man never lived on earth.
97:97	N:N	N:N	He was the son of the house, and I was only a maid; but he loved me truly and honorably, and he told his mother of it.
98:98	N:N	N:N	She was to him as an angel upon earth; she was so wise and loving.
99:99	N:N	N:N	He went to travel, and before he started he placed a gold ring on my finger; and as soon as he was out of the house, my mistress sent for me.
100:100	N:N	N:N	Gently and earnestly she drew me to her, and spake as if an angel were speaking.
101:101	N:N	N:N	She showed me clearly, in spirit and in truth, the difference there was between him and me.
102:102	N:N	N:N	'He is pleased now,' she said, 'with your pretty face; but good looks do not last long.
103:103	N:N	N:N	You have not been educated like he has.
104:104	N:N	N:N	You are not equals in mind and rank, and therein lies the misfortune.
105:105	N:N	N:N	I esteem the poor,' she added.
106:106	N:N	N:-	'In the sight of God, they may occupy a higher place than many of the rich; but here upon earth we must beware of entering upon a false track, lest we are overturned in our plans, like a carriage that travels by a dangerous road.
107:107	N:N	N:N	I know a worthy man, an artisan, who wishes to marry you.
108:108	N:N	N:N	I mean Eric, the glovemaker.
109:109	N:N	N:-	He is a widower, without children, and in a good position.
110:110	N:N	N:-	Will you think it over?'
111:111	Sa:F	S:S	Every word she said pierced my heart like a knife; but I knew she was right, and the thought pressed heavily upon me.
112:112	Sa:Sa	S:S	I kissed her hand, and wept bitter tears, and I wept still more when I went to my room, and threw myself on the bed.
113:113	Sa:N	S:S	I passed through a dreadful night; God knows what I suffered, and how I struggled.
114:114	N:N	S:S	The following Sunday I went to the house of God to pray for light to direct my path.
115:115	N:N	N:S	It seemed like a providence that as I stepped out of church Eric came towards me; and then there remained not a doubt in my mind.
116:116	N:N	N:S	We were suited to each other in rank and circumstances.
117:117	N:N	N:S	He was, even then, a man of good means.
118:118	H:N	H:S	I went up to him, and took his hand, and said, 'Do you still feel the same for me?' 'Yes; ever and always,' said he.
119:119	H:N	H:N	'Will you, then, marry a maiden who honors and esteems you, although she cannot offer you her love? but that may come.' 'Yes, it will come,' said he; and we joined our hands together, and I went home to my mistress.
120:120	N:N	N:N	The gold ring which her son had given me I wore next to my heart.
121:121	N:N	N:-	I could not place it on my finger during the daytime, but only in the evening, when I went to bed.
122:122	N:N	N:S	I kissed the ring till my lips almost bled, and then I gave it to my mistress, and told her that the banns were to be put up for me and the glovemaker the following week.
123:123	H:H	H:N	Then my mistress threw her arms round me, and kissed me.
124:124	N:N	N:S	She did not say that I was 'good for nothing;' very likely I was better then than I am now; but the misfortunes of this world, were unknown to me then.
125:125	N:N	N:N	At Michaelmas we were married, and for the first year everything went well with us.
126:126	N:N	N:N	We had a journeyman and an apprentice, and you were our servant, Martha."
127:127	H:N	H:N	"Ah, yes, and you were a dear, good mistress," said Martha, "I shall never forget how kind you and your husband were to me."
128:128	H:N	H:H	"Yes, those were happy years when you were with us, although we had no children at first.
129:129	N:N	N:N	The student I never met again.
130:130	N:N	N:N	Yet I saw him once, although he did not see me.
131:131	N:N	N:N	He came to his mother's funeral.
132:132	Sa:Sa	N:S	I saw him, looking pale as death, and deeply troubled, standing at her grave; for she was his mother.
133:133	Sa:N	N:S	Sometime after, when his father died, he was in foreign lands, and did not come home.
134:134	N:N	N:S	I know that he never married, I believe he became a lawyer.
135:135	N:N	N:S	He had forgotten me, and even had we met he would not have known me, for I have lost all my good looks, and perhaps that is all for the best."
136:136	N:N	N:S	And then she spoke of the dark days of trial, when misfortune had fallen upon them.
137:137	N:N	N:S	"We had five hundred dollars," she said, "and there was a house in the street to be sold for two hundred, so we thought it would be worth our while to pull it down and build a new one in its place; so it was bought.
138:138	N:N	N:S	The builder and carpenter made an estimate that the new house would cost ten hundred and twenty dollars to build.
139:139	N:N	N:S	Eric had credit, so he borrowed the money in the chief town.
140:140	N:N	N:S	But the captain, who was bringing it to him, was shipwrecked, and the money lost.
141:141	N:N	S:S	Just about this time, my dear sweet boy, who lies sleeping there, was born, and my husband was attacked with a severe lingering illness.
142:142	N:N	S:-	For three quarters of a year I was obliged to dress and undress him.
143:143	Sa:N	S:-	We were backward in our payments, we borrowed more money, and all that we had was lost and sold, and then my husband died.
144:144	Sa:N	S:-	Since then I have worked, toiled, and striven for the sake of the child.
145:145	N:N	S:S	I have scrubbed and washed both coarse and fine linen, but I have not been able to make myself better off; and it was God's will.
146:146	N:N	N:S	In His own time He will take me to Himself, but I know He will never forsake my boy."
147:147	N:N	N:S	Then she fell asleep.
148:148	N:N	N:S	In the morning she felt much refreshed, and strong enough, as she thought, to go on with her work.
149:149	N:N	-:-	But as soon as she stepped into the cold water, a sudden faintness seized her; she clutched at the air convulsively with her hand, took one step forward, and fell.
150:150	N:N	-:-	Her head rested on dry land, but her feet were in the water; her wooden shoes, which were only tied on by a wisp of straw, were carried away by the stream, and thus she was found by Martha when she came to bring her some coffee.
151:151	N:N	N:-	In the meantime a messenger had been sent to her house by the mayor, to say that she must come to him immediately, as he had something to tell her.
152:152	N:N	-:-	It was too late; a surgeon had been sent for to open a vein in her arm, but the poor woman was dead.
153:153	D:N	D:-	"She has drunk herself to death," said the cruel mayor.
154:154	N:N	+:+	In the letter, containing the news of his brother's death, it was stated that he had left in his will a legacy of six hundred dollars to the glovemaker's widow, who had been his mother's maid, to be paid with discretion, in large or small sums to the widow or her child.
155:155	D:N	D:+	"There was something between my brother and her, I remember," said the mayor; "it is a good thing that she is out of the way, for now the boy will have the whole.
156:156	N:N	N:+	I will place him with honest people to bring him up, that he may become a respectable working man."
157:157	N:N	N:+	And the blessing of God rested upon these words.
158:158	D:N	D:N	The mayor sent for the boy to come to him, and promised to take care of him, but most cruelly added that it was a good thing that his mother was dead, for "she was good for nothing."
159:159	N:N	N:S	They carried her to the churchyard, the churchyard in which the poor were buried.
160:160	N:N	S:S	Martha strewed sand on the grave and planted a rose-tree upon it, and the boy stood by her side.
161:161	Sa:Sa	S:S	"Oh, my poor mother!" he cried, while the tears rolled down his cheeks.
162:162	Sa:N	S:S	"Is it true what they say, that she was good for nothing?"
163:163	N:N	N:N	"No, indeed, it is not true," replied the old servant, raising her eyes to heaven; "she was worth a great deal; I knew it years ago, and since the last night of her life I am more certain of it than ever.
164:164	N:N	N:N	I say she was a good and worthy woman, and God, who is in heaven, knows I am speaking the truth, though the world may say, even now she was good for nothing."
0:0	N:N	N:H	GRANDMOTHER is very old, her face is wrinkled, and her hair is quite white; but her eyes are like two stars, and they have a mild, gentle expression in them when they look at you, which does you good.
1:1	N:N	N:H	She wears a dress of heavy, rich silk, with large flowers worked on it; and it rustles when she moves.
2:2	H:N	N:H	And then she can tell the most wonderful stories.
3:3	N:N	N:H	Grandmother knows a great deal, for she was alive before father and mother- that's quite certain.
4:4	H:H	H:H	She has a hymn-book with large silver clasps, in which she often reads; and in the book, between the leaves, lies a rose, quite flat and dry; it is not so pretty as the roses which are standing in the glass, and yet she smiles at it most pleasantly, and tears even come into her eyes.
5:5	N:N	N:N	"I wonder why grandmother looks at the withered flower in the old book that way?
6:6	N:N	N:N	Do you know?"
7:7	H:N	H:H	Why, when grandmother's tears fall upon the rose, and she is looking at it, the rose revives, and fills the room with its fragrance; the walls vanish as in a mist, and all around her is the glorious green wood, where in summer the sunlight streams through thick foliage; and grandmother, why she is young again, a charming maiden, fresh as a rose, with round, rosy cheeks, fair, bright ringlets, and a figure pretty and graceful; but the eyes, those mild, saintly eyes, are the same,- they have been left to grandmother.
8:8	H:H	H:H	At her side sits a young man, tall and strong; he gives her a rose and she smiles.
9:9	Sa:N	N:S	Grandmother cannot smile like that now.
10:10	N:N	N:S	Yes, she is smiling at the memory of that day, and many thoughts and recollections of the past; but the handsome young man is gone, and the rose has withered in the old book, and grandmother is sitting there, again an old woman, looking down upon the withered rose in the book.
11:11	N:N	N:S	Grandmother is dead now.
12:12	N:N	N:S	She had been sitting in her arm-chair, telling us a long, beautiful tale; and when it was finished, she said she was tired, and leaned her head back to sleep awhile.
13:13	N:H	N:H	We could hear her gentle breathing as she slept; gradually it became quieter and calmer, and on her countenance beamed happiness and peace.
14:14	H:N	H:H	It was as if lighted up with a ray of sunshine.
15:15	H:H	H:H	She smiled once more, and then people said she was dead.
16:16	H:N	H:H	She was laid in a black coffin, looking mild and beautiful in the white folds of the shrouded linen, though her eyes were closed; but every wrinkle had vanished, her hair looked white and silvery, and around her mouth lingered a sweet smile.
17:17	N:N	N:N	We did not feel at all afraid to look at the corpse of her who had been such a dear, good grandmother.
18:18	N:N	N:N	The hymn-book, in which the rose still lay, was placed under her head, for so she had wished it; and then they buried grandmother.
19:19	N:N	H:N	On the grave, close by the churchyard wall, they planted a rose-tree; it was soon full of roses, and the nightingale sat among the flowers, and sang over the grave.
20:20	N:N	H:N	From the organ in the church sounded the music and the words of the beautiful psalms, which were written in the old book under the head of the dead one.
21:21	N:N	N:N	The moon shone down upon the grave, but the dead was not there; every child could go safely, even at night, and pluck a rose from the tree by the churchyard wall.
22:22	N:N	N:N	The dead know more than we do who are living.
23:23	N:N	N:N	They know what a terror would come upon us if such a strange thing were to happen, as the appearance of a dead person among us.
24:24	N:H	N:H	They are better off than we are; the dead return no more.
25:25	N:N	N:N	The earth has been heaped on the coffin, and it is earth only that lies within it.
26:26	N:N	N:S	The leaves of the hymn-book are dust; and the rose, with all its recollections, has crumbled to dust also.
27:27	H:N	N:H	But over the grave fresh roses bloom, the nightingale sings, and the organ sounds and there still lives a remembrance of old grandmother, with the loving, gentle eyes that always looked young.
28:28	N:N	N:H	Eyes can never die.
29:29	N:N	N:H	Ours will once again behold dear grandmother, young and beautiful as when, for the first time, she kissed the fresh, red rose, that is now dust in the grave.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THIS story really consists of two parts.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The first part might be left out, but it gives us a few particulars, and these are useful We were staying in the country at a gentleman's seat, where it happened that the master was absent for a few days.
2:2	N:N	N:N	In the meantime, there arrived from the next town a lady; she had a pug dog with her, and came, she said, to dispose of shares in her tan-yard.
3:3	N:N	N:N	She had her papers with her, and we advised her to put them in an envelope, and to write thereon the address of the proprietor of the estate, "General War-Commissary Knight," &c.
4:4	N:N	N:N	She listened to us attentively, seized the pen, paused, and begged us to repeat the direction slowly.
5:5	Su-:Sa	-:S	We complied, and she wrote; but in the midst of the "General War-" she struck fast, sighed deeply, and said, "I am only a woman!"
6:6	A:A	A:A	Her Puggie had seated itself on the ground while she wrote, and growled; for the dog had come with her for amusement and for the sake of its health; and then the bare floor ought not to be offered to a visitor.
7:7	N:N	N:N	His outward appearance was characterized by a snub nose and a very fat back.
8:8	N:N	N:N	"He doesn't bite," said the lady; "he has no teeth.
9:9	D:N	N:N	He is like one of the family, faithful and grumpy; but the latter is my grandchildren's fault, for they have teased him; they play at wedding, and want to give him the part of the bridesmaid, and that's too much for him, poor old fellow."
10:10	N:N	N:N	And she delivered her papers, and took Puggie upon her arm.
11:11	N:N	N:N	And this is the first part of the story which might have been left out.
12:12	Su-:N	-:S	PUGGIE DIED!!
13:13	N:N	N:N	That's the second part.
14:14	N:N	N:N	It was about a week afterwards we arrived in the town, and put up at the inn.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Our windows looked into the tan-yard, which was divided into two parts by a partition of planks; in one half were many skins and hides, raw and tanned.
16:16	N:N	N:N	Here was all the apparatus necessary to carry on a tannery, and it belonged to the widow.
17:17	N:N	S:N	Puggie had died in the morning, and was to be buried in this part of the yard; the grandchildren of the widow (that is, of the tanner's widow, for Puggie had never been married) filled up the grave, and it was a beautiful grave- it must have been quite pleasant to lie there.
18:18	N:N	N:N	The grave was bordered with pieces of flower-pots and strewn over with sand; quite at the top they had stuck up half a beer bottle, with the neck upwards, and that was not at all allegorical.
19:19	N:N	N:H	The children danced round the grave, and the eldest of the boys among them, a practical youngster of seven years, made the proposition that there should be an exhibition of Puggie's burial-place for all who lived in the lane; the price of admission was to be a trouser button, for every boy would be sure to have one, and each might also give one for a little girl.
20:20	N:H	N:H	This proposal was adopted by acclamation.
21:21	N:N	N:H	And all the children out of the lane- yes, even out of the little lane at the back- flocked to the place, and each gave a button.
22:22	H:N	N:H	Many were noticed to go about on that afternoon with only one suspender; but then they had seen Puggie's grave, and the sight was worth much more.
23:23	H:N	H:N	But in front of the tan-yard, close to the entrance, stood a little girl clothed in rags, very pretty to look at, with curly hair, and eyes so blue and clear that it was a pleasure to look into them.
24:24	N:N	N:S	The child said not a word, nor did she cry; but each time the little door was opened she gave a long, long look into the yard.
25:25	Sa:Sa	S:S	She had not a button- that she knew right well, and therefore she remained standing sorrowfully outside, till all the others had seen the grave and had gone away; then she sat down, held her little brown hands before her eyes, and burst into tears; this girl alone had not seen Puggie's grave.
26:26	Sa:Sa	S:S	It was a grief as great to her as any grown person can experience.
27:27	N:N	H:N	We saw this from above; and looked at from above, how many a grief of our own and of others can make us smile!
28:28	N:N	N:N	That is the story, and whoever does not understand it may go and purchase a share in the tan-yard from the window.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE largest green leaf in this country is certainly the burdock-leaf.
1:1	N:N	N:N	If you hold it in front of you, it is large enough for an apron; and if you hold it over your head, it is almost as good as an umbrella, it is so wonderfully large.
2:2	N:N	N:N	A burdock never grows alone; where it grows, there are many more, and it is a splendid sight; and all this splendor is good for snails.
3:3	N:H	N:H	The great white snails, which grand people in olden times used to have made into fricassees; and when they had eaten them, they would say, "O, what a delicious dish!" for these people really thought them good; and these snails lived on burdock-leaves, and for them the burdock was planted.
4:4	N:N	N:N	There was once an old estate where no one now lived to require snails; indeed, the owners had all died out, but the burdock still flourished; it grew over all the beds and walks of the garden- its growth had no check- till it became at last quite a forest of burdocks.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Here and there stood an apple or a plum-tree; but for this, nobody would have thought the place had ever been a garden.
6:6	N:N	N:N	It was burdock from one end to the other; and here lived the last two surviving snails.
7:7	N:N	N:N	They knew not themselves how old they were; but they could remember the time when there were a great many more of them, and that they were descended from a family which came from foreign lands, and that the whole forest had been planted for them and theirs.
8:8	N:N	N:N	They had never been away from the garden; but they knew that another place once existed in the world, called the Duke's Palace Castle, in which some of their relations had been boiled till they became black, and were then laid on a silver dish; but what was done afterwards they did not know.
9:9	N:N	N:N	Besides, they could not imagine exactly how it felt to be boiled and placed on a silver dish; but no doubt it was something very fine and highly genteel.
10:10	N:N	N:N	Neither the cockchafer, nor the toad, nor the earth-worm, whom they questioned about it, would give them the least information; for none of their relations had ever been cooked or served on a silver dish.
11:11	N:N	N:N	The old white snails were the most aristocratic race in the world,- they knew that.
12:12	N:N	N:N	The forest had been planted for them, and the nobleman's castle had been built entirely that they might be cooked and laid on silver dishes.
13:13	H:H	H:H	They lived quite retired and very happily; and as they had no children of their own, they had adopted a little common snail, which they brought up as their own child.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The little one would not grow, for he was only a common snail; but the old people, particularly the mother-snail, declared that she could easily see how he grew; and when the father said he could not perceive it, she begged him to feel the little snail's shell, and he did so, and found that the mother was right.
15:15	N:N	N:N	One day it rained very fast.
16:16	Su+:N	+:N	"Listen, what a drumming there is on the burdock-leaves; turn, turn, turn; turn, turn, turn," said the father-snail.
17:17	H:N	H:N	"There come the drops," said the mother; "they are trickling down the stalks.
18:18	H:N	H:N	We shall have it very wet here presently.
19:19	H:H	H:H	I am very glad we have such good houses, and that the little one has one of his own.
20:20	N:H	H:H	There has been really more done for us than for any other creature; it is quite plain that we are the most noble people in the world.
21:21	N:N	H:H	We have houses from our birth, and the burdock forest has been planted for us.
22:22	N:N	N:H	I should very much like to know how far it extends, and what lies beyond it."
23:23	H:H	H:H	"There can be nothing better than we have here," said the father-snail; "I wish for nothing more."
24:24	N:N	N:N	"Yes, but I do," said the mother; "I should like to be taken to the palace, and boiled, and laid upon a silver dish, as was done to all our ancestors; and you may be sure it must be something very uncommon."
25:25	N:N	N:N	"The nobleman's castle, perhaps, has fallen to decay," said the snail-father, or the burdock wood may have grown out.
26:26	D:D	D:D	You need not be in a hurry; you are always so impatient, and the youngster is getting just the same.
27:27	N:N	N:N	He has been three days creeping to the top of that stalk.
28:28	H:F	H:F	I feel quite giddy when I look at him."
29:29	N:N	N:N	"You must not scold him," said the mother-snail; "he creeps so very carefully.
30:30	H:H	H:H	He will be the joy of our home; and we old folks have nothing else to live for.
31:31	N:N	N:N	But have you ever thought where we are to get a wife for him?
32:32	N:N	N:N	Do you think that farther out in the wood there may be others of our race?"
33:33	D:D	D:D	"There may be black snails, no doubt," said the old snail; "black snails without houses; but they are so vulgar and conceited too.
34:34	N:N	N:N	But we can give the ants a commission; they run here and there, as if they all had so much business to get through.
35:35	N:N	N:N	They, most likely, will know of a wife for our youngster."
36:36	N:N	N:N	"I certainly know a most beautiful bride," said one of the ants; "but I fear it would not do, for she is a queen."
37:37	N:N	N:N	"That does not matter," said the old snail; "has she a house?"
38:38	H:N	H:N	"She has a palace," replied the ant,- "a most beautiful ant-palace with seven hundred passages."
39:39	H:D	N:D	"Thank-you," said the mother-snail; "but our boy shall not go to live in an ant-hill.
40:40	N:N	N:N	If you know of nothing better, we will give the commission to the white gnats; they fly about in rain and sunshine; they know the burdock wood from one end to the other."
41:41	N:N	N:N	"We have a wife for him," said the gnats; "a hundred man-steps from here there is a little snail with a house, sitting on a gooseberry-bush; she is quite alone, and old enough to be married.
42:42	N:N	N:N	It is only a hundred man-steps from here."
43:43	N:N	N:N	"Then let her come to him," said the old people.
44:44	N:D	N:D	"He has the whole burdock forest; she has only a bush."
45:45	N:N	N:N	So they brought the little lady-snail.
46:46	N:N	N:N	She took eight days to perform the journey; but that was just as it ought to be; for it showed her to be one of the right breeding.
47:47	N:N	N:N	And then they had a wedding.
48:48	N:N	N:H	Six glow-worms gave as much light as they could; but in other respects it was all very quiet; for the old snails could not bear festivities or a crowd.
49:49	N:H	N:H	But a beautiful speech was made by the mother-snail.
50:50	N:H	N:H	The father could not speak; he was too much overcome.
51:51	N:H	H:H	Then they gave the whole burdock forest to the young snails as an inheritance, and repeated what they had so often said, that it was the finest place in the world, and that if they led upright and honorable lives, and their family increased, they and their children might some day be taken to the nobleman's palace, to be boiled black, and laid on a silver dish.
52:52	N:N	N:N	And when they had finished speaking, the old couple crept into their houses, and came out no more; for they slept.
53:53	N:N	H:H	The young snail pair now ruled in the forest, and had a numerous progeny.
54:54	N:N	N:N	But as the young ones were never boiled or laid in silver dishes, they concluded that the castle had fallen into decay, and that all the people in the world were dead; and as nobody contradicted them, they thought they must be right.
55:55	H:H	H:H	And the rain fell upon the burdock-leaves, to play the drum for them, and the sun shone to paint colors on the burdock forest for them, and they were very happy; the whole family were entirely and perfectly happy.
0:0	N:N	N:H	HIGH up in the clear, pure air flew an angel, with a flower plucked from the garden of heaven.
1:1	N:N	H:H	As he was kissing the flower a very little leaf fell from it and sunk down into the soft earth in the middle of a wood.
2:2	N:N	N:N	It immediately took root, sprouted, and sent out shoots among the other plants.
3:3	Su+:N	+:D	"What a ridiculous little shoot!" said one.
4:4	N:N	N:D	"No one will recognize it; not even the thistle nor the stinging-nettle."
5:5	D:D	D:D	"It must be a kind of garden plant," said another; and so they sneered and despised the plant as a thing from a garden.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"Where are you coming?" said the tall thistles whose leaves were all armed with thorns.
7:7	A:A	D:A	"It is stupid nonsense to allow yourself to shoot out in this way; we are not here to support you."
8:8	N:N	N:N	Winter came, and the plant was covered with snow, but the snow glittered over it as if it had sunshine beneath as well as above.
9:9	Su+:N	+:H	When spring came, the plant appeared in full bloom: a more beautiful object than any other plant in the forest.
10:10	N:N	N:N	And now the professor of botany presented himself, one who could explain his knowledge in black and white.
11:11	N:N	N:N	He examined and tested the plant, but it did not belong to his system of botany, nor could he possibly find out to what class it did belong.
12:12	Su-:N	-:D	"It must be some degenerate species," said he; "I do not know it, and it is not mentioned in any system."
13:13	D:N	D:D	"Not known in any system!" repeated the thistles and the nettles.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The large trees which grew round it saw the plant and heard the remarks, but they said not a word either good or bad, which is the wisest plan for those who are ignorant.
15:15	N:N	N:H	There passed through the forest a poor innocent girl; her heart was pure, and her understanding increased by her faith.
16:16	N:N	H:H	Her chief inheritance had been an old Bible, which she read and valued.
17:17	N:N	H:H	From its pages she heard the voice of God speaking to her, and telling her to remember what was said of Joseph's brethren when persons wished to injure her.
18:18	H:N	H:H	"They imagined evil in their hearts, but God turned it to good."
19:19	N:N	H:H	If we suffer wrongfully, if we are misunderstood or despised, we must think of Him who was pure and holy, and who prayed for those who nailed Him to the cross, "Father forgive them, for they know not what they do."
20:20	H:N	H:H	The girl stood still before the wonderful plant, for the green leaves exhaled a sweet and refreshing fragrance, and the flowers glittered and sparkled in the sunshine like colored flames, and the harmony of sweet sounds lingered round them as if each concealed within itself a deep fount of melody, which thousands of years could not exhaust.
21:21	H:H	H:H	With pious gratitude the girl looked upon this glorious work of God, and bent down over one of the branches, that she might examine the flower and inhale the sweet perfume.
22:22	H:H	H:H	Then a light broke in on her mind, and her heart expanded.
23:23	N:N	N:H	Gladly would she have plucked a flower, but she could not overcome her reluctance to break one off.
24:24	Su+:N	+:H	She knew it would so soon fade; so she took only a single green leaf, carried it home, and laid it in her Bible, where it remained ever green, fresh, and unfading.
25:25	Su-:N	-:S	Between the pages of the Bible it still lay when, a few weeks afterwards, that Bible was laid under the young girl's head in her coffin.
26:26	N:N	N:N	A holy calm rested on her face, as if the earthly remains bore the impress of the truth that she now stood in the presence of God.
27:27	H:N	H:H	In the forest the wonderful plant still continued to bloom till it grew and became almost a tree, and all the birds of passage bowed themselves before it.
28:28	D:N	D:N	"That plant is a foreigner, no doubt," said the thistles and the burdocks.
29:29	D:N	D:N	"We can never conduct ourselves like that in this country."
30:30	D:N	D:D	And the black forest snails actually spat at the flower.
31:31	N:N	N:N	Then came the swineherd; he was collecting thistles and shrubs to burn them for the ashes.
32:32	Su-:N	-:S	He pulled up the wonderful plant, roots and all, and placed it in his bundle.
33:33	N:N	N:N	"This will be as useful as any," he said; so the plant was carried away.
34:34	N:Sa	S:S	Not long after, the king of the country suffered from the deepest melancholy.
35:35	N:N	S:S	He was diligent and industrious, but employment did him no good.
36:36	Sa:N	S:S	They read deep and learned books to him, and then the lightest and most trifling that could be found, but all to no purpose.
37:37	N:N	N:N	Then they applied for advice to one of the wise men of the world, and he sent them a message to say that there was one remedy which would relieve and cure him, and that it was a plant of heavenly origin which grew in the forest in the king's own dominions.
38:38	N:N	N:N	The messenger described the flower so that is appearance could not be mistaken.
39:39	F:N	F:S	Then said the swineherd, "I am afraid I carried this plant away from the forest in my bundle, and it has been burnt to ashes long ago.
40:40	F:N	F:N	But I did not know any better."
41:41	Su-:N	-:N	"You did not know, any better!
42:42	A:N	A:A	Ignorance upon ignorance indeed!"
43:43	Sa:Sa	S:S	The poor swineherd took these words to heart, for they were addressed to him; he knew not that there were others who were equally ignorant.
44:44	N:N	S:S	Not even a leaf of the plant could be found.
45:45	N:N	S:N	There was one, but it lay in the coffin of the dead; no one knew anything about it.
46:46	Sa:Sa	S:S	Then the king, in his melancholy, wandered out to the spot in the wood.
47:47	N:N	S:N	"Here is where the plant stood," he said; "it is a sacred place."
48:48	N:N	N:N	Then he ordered that the place should be surrounded with a golden railing, and a sentry stationed near it.
49:49	H:N	H:N	The botanical professor wrote a long treatise about the heavenly plant, and for this he was loaded with gold, which improved the position of himself and his family.
50:50	N:N	H:H	And this part is really the most pleasant part of the story.
51:51	Sa:Sa	N:S	For the plant had disappeared, and the king remained as melancholy and sad as ever, but the sentry said he had always been so.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN Denmark there stands an old castle named Kronenburg, close by the Sound of Elsinore, where large ships, both English, Russian, and Prussian, pass by hundreds every day.
1:1	N:N	N:N	And they salute the old castle with cannons, "Boom, boom," which is as if they said, "Good-day."
2:2	N:N	N:N	And the cannons of the old castle answer "Boom," which means "Many thanks."
3:3	N:N	N:N	In winter no ships sail by, for the whole Sound is covered with ice as far as the Swedish coast, and has quite the appearance of a high-road.
4:4	N:N	H:N	The Danish and the Swedish flags wave, and Danes and Swedes say, "Good-day," and "Thank you" to each other, not with cannons, but with a friendly shake of the hand; and they exchange white bread and biscuits with each other, because foreign articles taste the best.
5:5	N:N	N:N	But the most beautiful sight of all is the old castle of Kronenburg, where Holger Danske sits in the deep, dark cellar, into which no one goes.
6:6	N:N	N:S	He is clad in iron and steel, and rests his head on his strong arm; his long beard hangs down upon the marble table, into which it has become firmly rooted; he sleeps and dreams, but in his dreams he sees everything that happens in Denmark.
7:7	N:N	N:N	On each Christmas-eve an angel comes to him and tells him that all he has dreamed is true, and that he may go to sleep again in peace, as Denmark is not yet in any real danger; but should danger ever come, then Holger Danske will rouse himself, and the table will burst asunder as he draws out his beard.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Then he will come forth in his strength, and strike a blow that shall sound in all the countries of the world.
9:9	N:N	N:N	An old grandfather sat and told his little grandson all this about Holger Danske, and the boy knew that what his grandfather told him must be true.
10:10	N:N	N:N	As the old man related this story, he was carving an image in wood to represent Holger Danske, to be fastened to the prow of a ship; for the old grandfather was a carver in wood, that is, one who carved figures for the heads of ships, according to the names given to them.
11:11	N:N	N:N	And now he had carved Holger Danske, who stood there erect and proud, with his long beard, holding in one hand his broad battle-axe, while with the other he leaned on the Danish arms.
12:12	N:N	N:N	The old grandfather told the little boy a great deal about Danish men and women who had distinguished themselves in olden times, so that he fancied he knew as much even as Holger Danske himself, who, after all, could only dream; and when the little fellow went to bed, he thought so much about it that he actually pressed his chin against the counterpane, and imagined that he had a long beard which had become rooted to it.
13:13	N:N	N:N	But the old grandfather remained sitting at his work and carving away at the last part of it, which was the Danish arms.
14:14	N:N	N:N	And when he had finished he looked at the whole figure, and thought of all he had heard and read, and what he had that evening related to his little grandson.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Then he nodded his head, wiped his spectacles and put them on, and said, "Ah, yes; Holger Danske will not appear in my lifetime, but the boy who is in bed there may very likely live to see him when the event really comes to pass."
16:16	H:H	H:H	And the old grandfather nodded again; and the more he looked at Holger Danske, the more satisfied he felt that he had carved a good image of him.
17:17	N:N	H:H	It seemed to glow with the color of life; the armor glittered like iron and steel.
18:18	N:N	N:H	The hearts in the Danish arms grew more and more red; while the lions, with gold crowns on their heads, were leaping up.
19:19	H:N	H:H	"That is the most beautiful coat of arms in the world," said the old man.
20:20	N:N	H:H	"The lions represent strength; and the hearts, gentleness and love."
21:21	N:N	N:H	And as he gazed on the uppermost lion, he thought of King Canute, who chained great England to Denmark's throne; and he looked at the second lion, and thought of Waldemar, who untied Denmark and conquered the Vandals.
22:22	N:N	N:H	The third lion reminded him of Margaret, who united Denmark, Sweden, and Norway.
23:23	N:N	N:H	But when he gazed at the red hearts, their colors glowed more deeply, even as flames, and his memory followed each in turn.
24:24	N:N	N:N	The first led him to a dark, narrow prison, in which sat a prisoner, a beautiful woman, daughter of Christian the Fourth, Eleanor Ulfeld, and the flame became a rose on her bosom, and its blossoms were not more pure than the heart of this noblest and best of all Danish women.
25:25	N:N	N:N	"Ah, yes; that is indeed a noble heart in the Danish arms," said the grandfather. and his spirit followed the second flame, which carried him out to sea, where cannons roared and the ships lay shrouded in smoke, and the flaming heart attached itself to the breast of Hvitfeldt in the form of the ribbon of an order, as he blew himself and his ship into the air in order to save the fleet.
26:26	H:H	N:H	And the third flame led him to Greenland's wretched huts, where the preacher, Hans Egede, ruled with love in every word and action.
27:27	N:N	N:H	The flame was as a star on his breast, and added another heart to the Danish arms.
28:28	N:N	N:N	And as the old grandfather's spirit followed the next hovering flame, he knew whither it would lead him.
29:29	N:N	N:N	In a peasant woman's humble room stood Frederick the Sixth, writing his name with chalk on the beam.
30:30	N:N	N:N	The flame trembled on his breast and in his heart, and it was in the peasant's room that his heart became one for the Danish arms.
31:31	Sa:Sa	S:S	The old grandfather wiped his eyes, for he had known King Frederick, with his silvery locks and his honest blue eyes, and had lived for him, and he folded his hands and remained for some time silent.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Then his daughter came to him and said it was getting late, that he ought to rest for a while, and that the supper was on the table.
33:33	Su+:N	D:H	"What you have been carving is very beautiful, grandfather," said she.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"Holger Danske and the old coat of arms; it seems to me as if I have seen the face somewhere."
35:35	N:N	N:N	"No, that is impossible," replied the old grandfather; "but I have seen it, and I have tried to carve it in wood, as I have retained it in my memory.
36:36	N:N	N:N	It was a long time ago, while the English fleet lay in the roads, on the second of April, when we showed that we were true, ancient Danes.
37:37	H:N	N:H	I was on board the Denmark, in Steene Bille's squadron; I had a man by my side whom even the cannon balls seemed to fear.
38:38	N:H	N:H	He sung old songs in a merry voice, and fired and fought as if he were something more than a man.
39:39	Sa:N	S:H	I still remember his face, but from whence he came, or whither he went, I know not; no one knows.
40:40	N:N	N:N	I have often thought it might have been Holger Danske himself, who had swam down to us from Kronenburg to help us in the hour of danger.
41:41	N:N	N:N	That was my idea, and there stands his likeness."
42:42	N:N	N:N	The wooden figure threw a gigantic shadow on the wall, and even on part of the ceiling; it seemed as if the real Holger Danske stood behind it, for the shadow moved; but this was no doubt caused by the flame of the lamp not burning steadily.
43:43	H:N	H:H	Then the daughter-in-law kissed the old grandfather, and led him to a large arm-chair by the table; and she, and her husband, who was the son of the old man and the father of the little boy who lay in bed, sat down to supper with him.
44:44	N:N	N:H	And the old grandfather talked of the Danish lions and the Danish hearts, emblems of strength and gentleness, and explained quite clearly that there is another strength than that which lies in a sword, and he pointed to a shelf where lay a number of old books, and amongst them a collection of Holberg's plays, which are much read and are so clever and amusing that it is easy to fancy we have known the people of those days, who are described in them.
45:45	N:N	N:N	"He knew how to fight also," said the old man; "for he lashed the follies and prejudices of people during his whole life."
46:46	N:N	N:H	Then the grandfather nodded to a place above the looking-glass, where hung an almanac, with a representation of the Round Tower upon it, and said "Tycho Brahe was another of those who used a sword, but not one to cut into the flesh and bone, but to make the way of the stars of heaven clear, and plain to be understood.
47:47	N:N	N:H	And then he whose father belonged to my calling,- yes, he, the son of the old image-carver, he whom we ourselves have seen, with his silvery locks and his broad shoulders, whose name is known in all lands;- yes, he was a sculptor, while I am only a carver.
48:48	H:N	N:H	Holger Danske can appear in marble, so that people in all countries of the world may hear of the strength of Denmark.
49:49	H:N	H:H	Now let us drink the health of Bertel."
50:50	N:N	H:N	But the little boy in bed saw plainly the old castle of Kronenburg, and the Sound of Elsinore, and Holger Danske, far down in the cellar, with his beard rooted to the table, and dreaming of everything that was passing above him.
51:51	H:N	H:H	And Holger Danske did dream of the little humble room in which the image-carver sat; he heard all that had been said, and he nodded in his dream, saying, "Ah, yes, remember me, you Danish people, keep me in your memory, I will come to you in the hour of need."
52:52	N:N	N:H	The bright morning light shone over Kronenburg, and the wind brought the sound of the hunting-horn across from the neighboring shores.
53:53	N:N	N:H	The ships sailed by and saluted the castle with the boom of the cannon, and Kronenburg returned the salute, "Boom, boom."
54:54	N:N	N:N	But the roaring cannons did not awake Holger Danske, for they meant only "Good morning," and "Thank you."
55:55	N:N	N:N	They must fire in another fashion before he awakes; but wake he will, for there is energy yet in Holger Danske.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the forest that extends from the banks of the Gudenau, in North Jutland, a long way into the country, and not far from the clear stream, rises a great ridge of land, which stretches through the wood like a wall.
1:1	N:N	N:N	Westward of this ridge, and not far from the river, stands a farmhouse, surrounded by such poor land that the sandy soil shows itself between the scanty ears of rye and wheat which grow in it.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Some years have passed since the people who lived here cultivated these fields; they kept three sheep, a pig, and two oxen; in fact they maintained themselves very well, they had quite enough to live upon, as people generally have who are content with their lot.
3:3	N:N	N:N	They even could have afforded to keep two horses, but it was a saying among the farmers in those parts, "The horse eats himself up;" that is to say, he eats as much as he earns.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Jeppe Jans cultivated his fields in summer, and in the winter he made wooden shoes.
5:5	N:N	N:N	He also had an assistant, a lad who understood as well as he himself did how to make wooden shoes strong, but light, and in the fashion.
6:6	N:N	N:N	They carved shoes and spoons, which paid well; therefore no one could justly call Jeppe Jans and his family poor people.
7:7	N:N	N:N	Little Ib, a boy of seven years old and the only child, would sit by, watching the workmen, or cutting a stick, and sometimes his finger instead of the stick.
8:8	Su+:N	H:N	But one day Ib succeeded so well in his carving that he made two pieces of wood look really like two little wooden shoes, and he determined to give them as a present to Little Christina.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"And who was Little Christina?"
10:10	N:N	N:N	She was the boatman's daughter, graceful and delicate as the child of a gentleman; had she been dressed differently, no one would have believed that she lived in a hut on the neighboring heath with her father.
11:11	N:N	N:N	He was a widower, and earned his living by carrying firewood in his large boat from the forest to the eel-pond and eel-weir, on the estate of Silkborg, and sometimes even to the distant town of Randers.
12:12	N:N	N:N	There was no one under whose care he could leave Little Christina; so she was almost always with him in his boat, or playing in the wood among the blossoming heath, or picking the ripe wild berries.
13:13	N:N	N:N	Sometimes, when her father had to go as far as the town, he would take Little Christina, who was a year younger than Ib, across the heath to the cottage of Jeppe Jans, and leave her there.
14:14	H:N	H:H	Ib and Christina agreed together in everything; they divided their bread and berries when they were hungry; they were partners in digging their little gardens; they ran, and crept, and played about everywhere.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Once they wandered a long way into the forest, and even ventured together to climb the high ridge.
16:16	N:N	N:H	Another time they found a few snipes' eggs in the wood, which was a great event.
17:17	N:N	N:H	Ib had never been on the heath where Christina's father lived, nor on the river; but at last came an opportunity.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Christina's father invited him to go for a sail in his boat; and the evening before, he accompanied the boatman across the heath to his house.
19:19	N:N	N:H	The next morning early, the two children were placed on the top of a high pile of firewood in the boat, and sat eating bread and wild strawberries, while Christina's father and his man drove the boat forward with poles.
20:20	H:N	H:N	They floated on swiftly, for the tide was in their favor, passing over lakes, formed by the stream in its course; sometimes they seemed quite enclosed by reeds and water-plants, yet there was always room for them to pass out, although the old trees overhung the water and the old oaks stretched out their bare branches, as if they had turned up their sleeves and wished to show their knotty, naked arms.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Old alder-trees, whose roots were loosened from the banks, clung with their fibres to the bottom of the stream, and the tops of the branches above the water looked like little woody islands.
22:22	H:N	H:H	The water-lilies waved themselves to and fro on the river, everything made the excursion beautiful, and at last they came to the great eel-weir, where the water rushed through the flood-gates; and the children thought this a beautiful sight.
23:23	N:N	N:N	In those days there was no factory nor any town house, nothing but the great farm, with its scanty-bearing fields, in which could be seen a few herd of cattle, and one or two farm laborers.
24:24	N:N	N:N	The rushing of the water through the sluices, and the scream of the wild ducks, were almost the only signs of active life at Silkborg.
25:25	N:N	N:N	After the firewood had been unloaded, Christina's father bought a whole bundle of eels and a sucking-pig, which were all placed in a basket in the stern of the boat.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Then they returned again up the stream; and as the wind was favorable, two sails were hoisted, which carried the boat on as well as if two horses had been harnessed to it.
27:27	N:N	N:N	As they sailed on, they came by chance to the place where the boatman's assistant lived, at a little distance from the bank of the river.
28:28	N:N	N:N	The boat was moored; and the two men, after desiring the children to sit still, both went on shore. they obeyed this order for a very short time, and then forgot it altogether.
29:29	Su-:N	-:S	First they peeped into the basket containing the eels and the sucking-pig; then they must needs pull out the pig and take it in their hands, and feel it, and touch it; and as they both wanted to hold it at the same time, the consequence was that they let it fall into the water, and the pig sailed away with the stream.
30:30	Su-:N	-:S	Here was a terrible disaster.
31:31	N:N	N:S	Ib jumped ashore, and ran a little distance from the boat.
32:32	F:N	-:S	"Oh, take me with you," cried Christina; and she sprang after him.
33:33	Su-:N	-:F	In a few minutes they found themselves deep in a thicket, and could no longer see the boat or the shore.
34:34	Sa:Sa	S:S	They ran on a little farther, and then Christina fell down, and began to cry.
35:35	N:N	N:S	Ib helped her up, and said, "Never mind; follow me.
36:36	N:N	N:S	Yonder is the house."
37:37	F:N	F:F	But the house was not yonder; and they wandered still farther, over the dry rustling leaves of the last year, and treading on fallen branches that crackled under their little feet; then they heard a loud, piercing cry, and they stood still to listen.
38:38	F:F	F:F	Presently the scream of an eagle sounded through the wood; it was an ugly cry, and it frightened the children; but before them, in the thickest part of the forest, grew the most beautiful blackberries, in wonderful quantities.
39:39	H:N	H:H	They looked so inviting that the children could not help stopping; and they remained there so long eating, that their mouths and cheeks became quite black with the juice.
40:40	F:N	F:F	Presently they heard the frightful scream again, and Christina said, "We shall get into trouble about that pig."
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Oh, never mind," said Ib; "we will go home to my father's house.
42:42	N:N	N:N	It is here in the wood."
43:43	F:F	F:F	So they went on, but the road led them out of the way; no house could be seen, it grew dark, and the children were afraid.
44:44	N:N	F:F	The solemn stillness that reigned around them was now and then broken by the shrill cries of the great horned owl and other birds that they knew nothing of.
45:45	Sa:Sa	S:S	At last they both lost themselves in the thicket; Christina began to cry, and then Ib cried too; and, after weeping and lamenting for some time, they stretched themselves down on the dry leaves and fell asleep.
46:46	N:N	N:N	The sun was high in the heavens when the two children woke.
47:47	N:N	N:S	They felt cold; but not far from their resting-place, on a hill, the sun was shining through the trees.
48:48	N:N	N:N	They thought if they went there they should be warm, and Ib fancied he should be able to see his father's house from such a high spot.
49:49	N:N	N:N	But they were far away from home now, in quite another part of the forest.
50:50	N:N	N:N	They clambered to the top of the rising ground, and found themselves on the edge of a declivity, which sloped down to a clear transparent lake.
51:51	Su+:Su+	+:+	Great quantities of fish could be seen through the clear water, sparkling in the sun's rays; they were quite surprised when they came so suddenly upon such an unexpected sight.
52:52	N:N	N:H	Close to where they stood grew a hazel-bush, covered with beautiful nuts.
53:53	N:N	N:H	They soon gathered some, cracked them, and ate the fine young kernels, which were only just ripe.
54:54	N:N	N:F	But there was another surprise and fright in store for them.
55:55	Su-:N	-:F	Out of the thicket stepped a tall old woman, her face quite brown, and her hair of a deep shining black; the whites of her eyes glittered like a Moor's; on her back she carried a bundle, and in her hand a knotted stick.
56:56	N:N	N:F	She was a gypsy.
57:57	N:N	N:F	The children did not at first understand what she said.
58:58	Su+:N	+:F	She drew out of her pocket three large nuts, in which she told them were hidden the most beautiful and lovely things in the world, for they were wishing nuts.
59:59	H:N	H:N	Ib looked at her, and as she spoke so kindly, he took courage, and asked her if she would give him the nuts; and the woman gave them to him, and then gathered some more from the bushes for herself, quite a pocket full.
60:60	H:Su+	H:+	Ib and Christina looked at the wishing nuts with wide open eyes.
61:61	N:N	H:N	"Is there in this nut a carriage, with a pair of horses?" asked Ib.
62:62	N:N	N:N	"Yes, there is a golden carriage, with two golden horses," replied the woman.
63:63	N:N	N:N	"Then give me that nut," said Christina; so Ib gave it to her, and the strange woman tied up the nut for her in her handkerchief.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Ib held up another nut.
65:65	N:N	N:N	"Is there, in this nut, a pretty little neckerchief like the one Christina has on her neck?" asked Ib.
66:66	Su+:N	+:N	"There are ten neckerchiefs in it," she replied, "as well as beautiful dresses, stockings, and a hat and veil."
67:67	H:N	H:N	"Then I will have that one also," said Christina; "and it is a pretty one too.
68:68	N:N	N:N	And then Ib gave her the second nut.
69:69	N:N	N:N	The third was a little black thing.
70:70	N:N	N:N	"You may keep that one," said Christina; "it is quite as pretty."
71:71	N:N	N:N	"What is in it?" asked Ib.
72:72	H:N	H:N	"The best of all things for you," replied the gypsy.
73:73	N:N	N:N	So Ib held the nut very tight.
74:74	N:N	N:N	Then the woman promised to lead the children to the right path, that they might find their way home: and they went forward certainly in quite another direction to the one they meant to take; therefore no one ought to speak against the woman, and say that she wanted to steal the children.
75:75	H:F	H:F	In the wild wood-path they met a forester who knew Ib, and, by his help, Ib and Christina reached home, where they found every one had been very anxious about them.
76:76	N:N	H:N	They were pardoned and forgiven, although they really had both done wrong, and deserved to get into trouble; first, because they had let the sucking-pig fall into the water; and, secondly, because they had run away.
77:77	N:N	N:N	Christina was taken back to her father's house on the heath, and Ib remained in the farm-house on the borders of the wood, near the great land ridge.
78:78	N:N	N:N	The first thing Ib did that evening was to take out of his pocket the little black nut, in which the best thing of all was said to be enclosed.
79:79	N:N	N:N	He laid it carefully between the door and the door-post, and then shut the door so that the nut cracked directly.
80:80	Su-:N	-:N	But there was not much kernel to be seen; it was what we should call hollow or worm-eaten, and looked as if it had been filled with tobacco or rich black earth.
81:81	Su-:N	-:S	"It is just what I expected!" exclaimed Ib.
82:82	A:N	A:S	"How should there be room in a little nut like this for the best thing of all?
83:83	N:N	N:S	Christina will find her two nuts just the same; there will be neither fine clothes or a golden carriage in them."
84:84	N:N	N:N	Winter came; and the new year, and indeed many years passed away; until Ib was old enough to be confirmed, and, therefore, he went during a whole winter to the clergyman of the nearest village to be prepared.
85:85	N:N	N:N	One day, about this time, the boatman paid a visit to Ib's parents, and told them that Christina was going to service, and that she had been remarkably fortunate in obtaining a good place, with most respectable people.
86:86	N:N	N:N	"Only think," he said, "She is going to the rich innkeeper's, at the hotel in Herning, many miles west from here.
87:87	N:N	N:N	She is to assist the landlady in the housekeeping; and, if afterwards she behaves well and remains to be confirmed, the people will treat her as their own daughter."
88:88	N:N	N:N	So Ib and Christina took leave of each other.
89:89	N:N	N:H	People already called them "the betrothed," and at parting the girl showed Ib the two nuts, which she had taken care of ever since the time that they lost themselves in the wood; and she told him also that the little wooden shoes he once carved for her when he was a boy, and gave her as a present, had been carefully kept in a drawer ever since.
90:90	N:N	N:N	And so they parted.
91:91	N:N	N:H	After Ib's confirmation, he remained at home with his mother, for he had become a clever shoemaker, and in summer managed the farm for her quite alone.
92:92	N:N	N:N	His father had been dead some time, and his mother kept no farm servants.
93:93	N:N	N:N	Sometimes, but very seldom, he heard of Christina, through a postillion or eel-seller who was passing.
94:94	N:N	N:N	But she was well off with the rich innkeeper; and after being confirmed she wrote a letter to her father, in which was a kind message to Ib and his mother.
95:95	N:N	N:N	In this letter, she mentioned that her master and mistress had made her a present of a beautiful new dress, and some nice under-clothes.
96:96	N:N	N:H	This was, of course, pleasant news.
97:97	Su+:N	+:H	One day, in the following spring, there came a knock at the door of the house where Ib's old mother lived; and when they opened it, lo and behold, in stepped the boatman and Christina.
98:98	N:N	H:H	She had come to pay them a visit, and to spend the day.
99:99	N:N	H:H	A carriage had to come from the Herning hotel to the next village, and she had taken the opportunity to see her friends once more.
100:100	N:N	H:H	She looked as elegant as a real lady, and wore a pretty dress, beautifully made on purpose for her.
101:101	N:N	N:N	There she stood, in full dress, while Ib wore only his working clothes.
102:102	H:H	H:H	He could not utter a word; he could only seize her hand and hold it fast in his own, but he felt too happy and glad to open his lips.
103:103	H:N	H:H	Christina, however, was quite at her ease; she talked and talked, and kissed him in the most friendly manner.
104:104	H:N	H:H	Even afterwards, when they were left alone, and she asked, "Did you know me again, Ib?" he still stood holding her hand, and said at last, "You are become quite a grand lady, Christina, and I am only a rough working man; but I have often thought of you and of old times."
105:105	N:N	H:H	Then they wandered up the great ridge, and looked across the stream to the heath, where the little hills were covered with the flowering broom.
106:106	N:N	N:H	Ib said nothing; but before the time came for them to part, it became quite clear to him that Christina must be his wife: had they not even in childhood been called the betrothed?
107:107	N:N	N:H	To him it seemed as if they were really engaged to each other, although not a word had been spoken on the subject.
108:108	N:N	N:N	They had only a few more hours to remain together, for Christina was obliged to return that evening to the neighboring village, to be ready for the carriage which was to start the next morning early for Herning.
109:109	N:N	N:N	Ib and her father accompanied her to the village.
110:110	N:N	N:H	It was a fine moonlight evening; and when they arrived, Ib stood holding Christina's hand in his, as if he could not let her go.
111:111	H:H	H:H	His eyes brightened, and the words he uttered came with hesitation from his lips, but from the deepest recesses of his heart: "Christina, if you have not become too grand, and if you can be contented to live in my mother's house as my wife, we will be married some day.
112:112	N:N	N:H	But we can wait for a while."
113:113	H:N	H:N	"Oh yes," she replied; "Let us wait a little longer, Ib.
114:114	H:H	H:H	I can trust you, for I believe that I do love you.
115:115	Su-:N	-:N	But let me think it over."
116:116	H:N	H:H	Then he kissed her lips; and so they parted.
117:117	N:N	N:N	On the way home, Ib told the boatman that he and Christina were as good as engaged to each other; and the boatman found out that he had always expected it would be so, and went home with Ib that evening, and remained the night in the farmhouse; but nothing further was said of the engagement.
118:118	N:N	N:N	During the next year, two letters passed between Ib and Christina.
119:119	N:N	N:N	They were signed, "Faithful till death;" but at the end of that time, one day the boatman came over to see Ib, with a kind greeting from Christina.
120:120	N:F	N:F	He had something else to say, which made him hesitate in a strange manner.
121:121	N:N	N:H	At last it came out that Christina, who had grown a very pretty girl, was more lucky than ever.
122:122	Su-:H	-:H	She was courted and admired by every one; but her master's son, who had been home on a visit, was so much pleased with Christina that he wished to marry her.
123:123	N:N	N:H	He had a very good situation in an office at Copenhagen, and as she had also taken a liking for him, his parents were not unwilling to consent.
124:124	N:N	N:N	But Christina, in her heart, often thought of Ib, and knew how much he thought of her; so she felt inclined to refuse this good fortune, added the boatman.
125:125	Sa:Sa	S:S	At first Ib said not a word, but he became as white as the wall, and shook his head gently, and then he spoke,- "Christina must not refuse this good fortune."
126:126	N:N	N:S	"Then will you write a few words to her?" said the boatman.
127:127	Sa:N	S:S	Ib sat down to write, but he could not get on at all.
128:128	N:N	S:S	The words were not what he wished to say, so he tore up the page.
129:129	N:N	S:S	The following morning, however, a letter lay ready to be sent to Christina, and the following is what he wrote:- "The letter written by you to your father I have read, and see from it that you are prosperous in everything, and that still better fortune is in store for you.
130:130	N:N	S:S	Ask your own heart, Christina, and think over carefully what awaits you if you take me for your husband, for I possess very little in the world.
131:131	N:N	S:S	Do not think of me or of my position; think only of your own welfare.
132:132	N:N	S:S	You are bound to me by no promises; and if in your heart you have given me one, I release you from it.
133:133	N:N	S:S	May every blessing and happiness be poured out upon you, Christina.
134:134	N:N	S:S	Heaven will give me the heart's consolation.
135:135	N:N	S:S	Ever your sincere friend, IB."
136:136	N:N	N:N	This letter was sent, and Christina received it in due time.
137:137	N:N	N:N	In the course of the following November, her banns were published in the church on the heath, and also in Copenhagen, where the bridegroom lived.
138:138	N:N	N:N	She was taken to Copenhagen under the protection of her future mother-in-law, because the bridegroom could not spare time from his numerous occupations for a journey so far into Jutland.
139:139	N:N	N:N	On the journey, Christina met her father at one of the villages through which they passed, and here he took leave of her.
140:140	Sa:Sa	S:S	Very little was said about the matter to Ib, and he did not refer to it; his mother, however, noticed that he had grown very silent and pensive.
141:141	N:N	N:N	Thinking as he did of old times, no wonder the three nuts came into his mind which the gypsy woman had given him when a child, and of the two which he had given to Christina.
142:142	N:N	N:N	These wishing nuts, after all, had proved true fortune-tellers.
143:143	N:N	N:N	One had contained a gilded carriage and noble horses, and the other beautiful clothes; all of these Christina would now have in her new home at Copenhagen.
144:144	N:N	N:N	Her part had come true.
145:145	N:N	N:N	And for him the nut had contained only black earth.
146:146	N:N	N:N	The gypsy woman had said it was the best for him.
147:147	N:N	N:N	Perhaps it was, and this also would be fulfilled.
148:148	H:N	H:N	He understood the gypsy woman's meaning now.
149:149	N:N	N:S	The black earth- the dark grave- was the best thing for him now.
150:150	N:N	N:S	Again years passed away; not many, but they seemed long years to Ib.
151:151	N:N	N:N	The old innkeeper and his wife died one after the other; and the whole of their property, many thousand dollars, was inherited by their son.
152:152	N:N	N:N	Christina could have the golden carriage now, and plenty of fine clothes.
153:153	Su-:N	-:N	During the two long years which followed, no letter came from Christina to her father; and when at last her father received one from her, it did not speak of prosperity or happiness.
154:154	Sa:N	S:S	Poor Christina!
155:155	N:N	S:S	Neither she nor her husband understood how to economize or save, and the riches brought no blessing with them, because they had not asked for it.
156:156	N:N	N:N	Years passed; and for many summers the heath was covered with bloom; in winter the snow rested upon it, and the rough winds blew across the ridge under which stood Ib's sheltered home.
157:157	N:N	N:N	One spring day the sun shone brightly, and he was guiding the plough across his field.
158:158	N:N	N:+	The ploughshare struck against something which he fancied was a firestone, and then he saw glittering in the earth a splinter of shining metal which the plough had cut from something which gleamed brightly in the furrow.
159:159	Su+:N	N:+	He searched, and found a large golden armlet of superior workmanship, and it was evident that the plough had disturbed a Hun's grave.
160:160	Su+:N	+:H	He searched further, and found more valuable treasures, which Ib showed to the clergyman, who explained their value to him.
161:161	N:N	N:H	Then he went to the magistrate, who informed the president of the museum of the discovery, and advised Ib to take the treasures himself to the president.
162:162	H:N	H:H	"You have found in the earth the best thing you could find," said the magistrate.
163:163	Su+:N	H:H	"The best thing," thought Ib; "the very best thing for me,- and found in the earth!
164:164	H:N	H:H	Well, if it really is so, then the gypsy woman was right in her prophecy."
165:165	N:N	N:N	So Ib went in the ferry-boat from Aarhus to Copenhagen.
166:166	N:N	N:N	To him who had only sailed once or twice on the river near his own home, this seemed like a voyage on the ocean; and at length he arrived at Copenhagen.
167:167	N:N	H:H	The value of the gold he had found was paid to him; it was a large sum- six hundred dollars.
168:168	N:N	N:N	Then Ib of the heath went out, and wandered about in the great city.
169:169	N:N	N:N	On the evening before the day he had settled to return with the captain of the passage-boat, Ib lost himself in the streets, and took quite a different turning to the one he wished to follow.
170:170	N:N	N:N	He wandered on till he found himself in a poor street of the suburb called Christian's Haven.
171:171	N:N	N:N	Not a creature could be seen.
172:172	Sa:Sa	S:S	At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched-looking houses, and Ib asked her to tell him the way to the street he wanted; she looked up timidly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
173:173	N:N	S:S	He asked her what was the matter; but what she said he could not understand.
174:174	N:N	N:S	So he went along the street with her; and as they passed under a lamp, the light fell on the little girl's face.
175:175	Su+:F	+:F	A strange sensation came over Ib, as he caught sight of it.
176:176	Su+:N	+:N	The living, breathing embodiment of Little Christina stood before him, just as he remembered her in the days of her childhood.
177:177	N:N	N:N	He followed the child to the wretched house, and ascended the narrow, crazy staircase which led to a little garret in the roof.
178:178	Sa:N	S:S	The air in the room was heavy and stifling, no light was burning, and from one corner came sounds of moaning and sighing.
179:179	N:N	S:S	It was the mother of the child who lay there on a miserable bed.
180:180	N:N	S:S	With the help of a match, Ib struck a light, and approached her.
181:181	N:N	N:S	"Can I be of any service to you?" he asked.
182:182	N:N	N:S	"This little girl brought me up here; but I am a stranger in this city.
183:183	N:N	N:S	Are there no neighbors or any one whom I can call?"
184:184	N:N	N:S	Then he raised the head of the sick woman, and smoothed her pillow.
185:185	N:Su+	N:+	He started as he did so.
186:186	Su+:N	+:+	It was Christina of the heath!
187:187	N:N	+:+	No one had mentioned her name to Ib for years; it would have disturbed his peace of mind, especially as the reports respecting her were not good.
188:188	N:N	N:S	The wealth which her husband had inherited from his parents had made him proud and arrogant.
189:189	N:N	N:S	He had given up his certain appointment, and travelled for six months in foreign lands, and, on his return, had lived in great style, and got into terrible debt.
190:190	N:N	N:S	For a time he had trembled on the high pedestal on which he had placed himself, till at last he toppled over, and ruin came.
191:191	N:N	N:S	His numerous merry companions, and the visitors at his table, said it served him right, for he had kept house like a madman.
192:192	N:N	N:S	One morning his corpse was found in the canal.
193:193	Sa:N	S:S	The cold hand of death had already touched the heart of Christina.
194:194	Sa:Sa	S:S	Her youngest child, looked for in the midst of prosperity, had sunk into the grave when only a few weeks old; and at last Christina herself became sick unto death, and lay, forsaken and dying, in a miserable room, amid poverty she might have borne in her younger days, but which was now more painful to her from the luxuries to which she had lately been accustomed.
195:195	N:N	S:S	It was her eldest child, also a Little Christina, whom Ib had followed to her home, where she suffered hunger and poverty with her mother.
196:196	Sa:Sa	S:S	It makes me unhappy to think that I shall die, and leave this poor child," sighed she.
197:197	Sa:N	S:S	"Oh, what will become of her?"
198:198	N:N	S:S	She could say no more.
199:199	N:N	S:S	Then Ib brought out another match, and lighted a piece of candle which he found in the room, and it threw a glimmering light over the wretched dwelling.
200:200	N:N	N:S	Ib looked at the little girl, and thought of Christina in her young days.
201:201	N:N	N:S	For her sake, could he not love this child, who was a stranger to him?
202:202	N:N	N:S	As he thus reflected, the dying woman opened her eyes, and gazed at him.
203:203	N:N	N:N	Did she recognize him?
204:204	Sa:N	S:S	He never knew; for not another word escaped her lips.
205:205	N:N	N:N	* * * * * * *
206:206	N:N	N:H	In the forest by the river Gudenau, not far from the heath, and beneath the ridge of land, stood the little farm, newly painted and whitewashed.
207:207	N:N	N:N	The air was heavy and dark; there were no blossoms on the heath; the autumn winds whirled the yellow leaves towards the boatman's hut, in which strangers dwelt; but the little farm stood safely sheltered beneath the tall trees and the high ridge.
208:208	N:N	H:N	The turf blazed brightly on the hearth, and within was sunlight, the sparkling light from the sunny eyes of a child; the birdlike tones from the rosy lips ringing like the song of a lark in spring.
209:209	H:N	H:H	All was life and joy.
210:210	N:N	H:H	Little Christina sat on Ib's knee.
211:211	N:N	H:N	Ib was to her both father and mother; her own parents had vanished from her memory, as a dream-picture vanishes alike from childhood and age.
212:212	H:N	H:N	Ib's house was well and prettily furnished; for he was a prosperous man now, while the mother of the little girl rested in the churchyard at Copenhagen, where she had died in poverty.
213:213	N:N	H:H	Ib had money now- money which had come to him out of the black earth; and he had Christina for his own, after all.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE Flea, the Grasshopper, and the Skipjack once wanted to see which of them could jump highest; and they invited the whole world, and whoever else would come, to see the grand sight.
1:1	N:N	N:N	And there the three famous jumpers were met together in the room.
2:2	N:N	N:N	"Yes, I'll give my daughter to him who jumps highest," said the King, "for it would be mean to let these people jump for nothing."
3:3	N:N	N:N	The Flea stepped out first.
4:4	N:N	N:N	He had very pretty manners, and bowed in all directions, for he had young ladies' blood in his veins, and was accustomed to consort only with human beings; and that was of great consequence.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Then came the Grasshopper: he was certainly much heavier, but he had a good figure, and wore the green uniform that was born with him.
6:6	N:H	N:H	This person, moreover, maintained that he belonged to a very old family in the land of Egypt, and that he was highly esteemed there.
7:7	N:N	N:H	He had just come from the field, he said, and had been put into a card house three stories high, and all made of picture cards with the figures turned inwards.
8:8	N:N	N:H	There were doors and windows in the house, cut in the body of the Queen of Hearts.
9:9	H:N	N:H	"I sing so," he said, "that sixteen native crickets who have chirped from their youth up, and have never yet had a card house of their own, would become thinner than they are with envy if they were to hear me."
10:10	N:N	N:H	Both of them, the Flea and the Grasshopper, took care to announce who they were, and that they considered themselves entitled to marry a Princess.
11:11	N:N	N:N	The Skipjack said nothing, but it was said of him that he thought all the more; and directly the Yard Dog had smelt at him he was ready to assert that the Skipjack was of good family, and formed from the breastbone of an undoubted goose.
12:12	N:N	N:N	The old councillor, who had received three medals for holding his tongue, declared that the Skipjack possessed the gift of prophecy; one could tell by his bones whether there would be a severe winter or a mild one; and that's more than one can always tell from the breastbone of the man who writes the almanac.
13:13	N:N	N:N	"I shall not say anything more," said the old King.
14:14	N:N	N:N	"I only go on quietly, and always think the best."
15:15	N:N	N:N	Now they were to take their jump.
16:16	N:N	N:N	The Flea sprang so high that no one could see him; and then they asserted that he had not jumped at all.
17:17	Su-:N	-:S	That was very mean.
18:18	A:A	A:A	The Grasshopper only sprang half as high, but he sprang straight into the King's face, and the King declared that was horribly rude.
19:19	N:N	N:N	The Skipjack stood a long time considering; at last people thought that he could not jump at all.
20:20	F:N	N:N	"I only hope he's not become unwell," said the Yard Dog, and then he smelt at him again.
21:21	N:N	N:N	"Tap!" he sprang with a little crooked jump just into the lap of the Princess, who sat on a low golden stool.
22:22	N:N	N:H	Then the King said, "The highest leap was taken by him who jumped up to my daughter; for therein lies the point; but it requires head to achieve that, and the Skipjack has shown that he has a head."
23:23	N:N	H:H	And so he had the Princess.
24:24	A:N	A:A	"I jumped highest, after all," said the Flea.
25:25	N:N	N:A	"But it's all the same.
26:26	D:N	D:A	Let her have the goose-bone with its lump of wax and bit of stick.
27:27	A:N	D:A	I jumped to the highest; but in this world a body is required if one wishes to be seen."
28:28	N:N	N:S	And the Flea went into foreign military service, where it is said he was killed.
29:29	N:N	N:S	The Grasshopper seated himself out in the ditch, and thought and considered how things happened in the world.
30:30	A:N	S:S	And he too said, "Body is required! body is required!"
31:31	Sa:Sa	S:S	And then he sang his own melancholy song, and from that we have gathered this story, which they say is not true, though it's in print.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the forest, high up on the steep shore, and not far from the open seacoast, stood a very old oak-tree.
1:1	N:N	N:N	It was just three hundred and sixty-five years old, but that long time was to the tree as the same number of days might be to us; we wake by day and sleep by night, and then we have our dreams.
2:2	N:N	N:N	It is different with the tree; it is obliged to keep awake through three seasons of the year, and does not get any sleep till winter comes.
3:3	N:N	N:N	Winter is its time for rest; its night after the long day of spring, summer, and autumn.
4:4	N:H	N:H	On many a warm summer, the Ephemera, the flies that exist for only a day, had fluttered about the old oak, enjoyed life and felt happy and if, for a moment, one of the tiny creatures rested on one of his large fresh leaves, the tree would always say, "Poor little creature! your whole life consists only of a single day.
5:5	N:N	N:N	How very short.
6:6	N:N	N:S	It must be quite melancholy."
7:7	Su-:N	N:-	"Melancholy! what do you mean?" the little creature would always reply.
8:8	H:H	H:H	"Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, and beautiful, that it makes me joyous."
9:9	N:N	N:N	"But only for one day, and then it is all over."
10:10	Su-:N	-:N	"Over!" repeated the fly; "what is the meaning of all over?
11:11	N:N	N:N	Are you all over too?"
12:12	N:N	N:N	"No; I shall very likely live for thousands of your days, and my day is whole seasons long; indeed it is so long that you could never reckon it out."
13:13	N:N	N:N	"No? then I don't understand you.
14:14	H:H	H:H	You may have thousands of my days, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry and happy.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Does all the beauty of the world cease when you die?"
16:16	N:N	N:N	"No," replied the tree; "it will certainly last much longer,- infinitely longer than I can even think of.
17:17	N:N	H:N	"Well, then," said the little fly, "we have the same time to live; only we reckon differently."
18:18	H:H	H:H	And the little creature danced and floated in the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance of clover-fields and wild roses, elder-blossoms and honeysuckle, from the garden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of all these was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.
19:19	H:H	H:H	The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights, that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
20:20	N:H	H:H	Its wings could sustain it no longer, and gently and slowly it glided down upon the soft waving blades of grass, nodded its little head as well as it could nod, and slept peacefully and sweetly.
21:21	N:N	N:N	The fly was dead.
22:22	Sa:N	S:S	"Poor little Ephemera!" said the oak; "what a terribly short life!"
23:23	N:N	N:N	And so, on every summer day the dance was repeated, the same questions asked, and the same answers given.
24:24	H:H	H:H	The same thing was continued through many generations of Ephemera; all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
25:25	N:N	N:N	The oak remained awake through the morning of spring, the noon of summer, and the evening of autumn; its time of rest, its night drew nigh- winter was coming.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Already the storms were singing, "Good-night, good-night."
27:27	N:N	N:N	Here fell a leaf and there fell a leaf.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"We will rock you and lull you.
29:29	N:N	N:N	Go to sleep, go to sleep.
30:30	N:N	N:N	We will sing you to sleep, and shake you to sleep, and it will do your old twigs good; they will even crackle with pleasure.
31:31	N:N	N:N	Sleep sweetly, sleep sweetly, it is your three-hundred-and-sixty-fifth night.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Correctly speaking, you are but a youngster in the world.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Sleep sweetly, the clouds will drop snow upon you, which will be quite a cover-lid, warm and sheltering to your feet.
34:34	N:N	N:N	Sweet sleep to you, and pleasant dreams."
35:35	N:N	N:N	And there stood the oak, stripped of all its leaves, left to rest during the whole of a long winter, and to dream many dreams of events that had happened in its life, as in the dreams of men.
36:36	N:N	N:N	The great tree had once been small; indeed, in its cradle it had been an acorn.
37:37	N:N	N:N	According to human computation, it was now in the fourth century of its existence.
38:38	N:N	N:H	It was the largest and best tree in the forest.
39:39	N:N	N:H	Its summit towered above all the other trees, and could be seen far out at sea, so that it served as a landmark to the sailors.
40:40	N:N	N:H	It had no idea how many eyes looked eagerly for it.
41:41	N:N	N:H	In its topmost branches the wood-pigeon built her nest, and the cuckoo carried out his usual vocal performances, and his well-known notes echoed amid the boughs; and in autumn, when the leaves looked like beaten copper plates, the birds of passage would come and rest upon the branches before taking their flight across the sea.
42:42	N:N	N:N	But now it was winter, the tree stood leafless, so that every one could see how crooked and bent were the branches that sprang forth from the trunk.
43:43	N:Sa	N:S	Crows and rooks came by turns and sat on them, and talked of the hard times which were beginning, and how difficult it was in winter to obtain food.
44:44	N:N	N:N	It was just about holy Christmas time that the tree dreamed a dream.
45:45	N:H	N:H	The tree had, doubtless, a kind of feeling that the festive time had arrived, and in his dream fancied he heard the bells ringing from all the churches round, and yet it seemed to him to be a beautiful summer's day, mild and warm.
46:46	H:N	H:H	His mighty summits was crowned with spreading fresh green foliage; the sunbeams played among the leaves and branches, and the air was full of fragrance from herb and blossom; painted butterflies chased each other; the summer flies danced around him, as if the world had been created merely for them to dance and be merry in.
47:47	N:N	N:H	All that had happened to the tree during every year of his life seemed to pass before him, as in a festive procession.
48:48	N:N	H:H	He saw the knights of olden times and noble ladies ride by through the wood on their gallant steeds, with plumes waving in their hats, and falcons on their wrists.
49:49	N:N	N:H	The hunting horn sounded, and the dogs barked.
50:50	N:N	N:H	He saw hostile warriors, in colored dresses and glittering armor, with spear and halberd, pitching their tents, and anon striking them.
51:51	N:N	N:H	The watchfires again blazed, and men sang and slept under the hospitable shelter of the tree.
52:52	N:H	H:H	He saw lovers meet in quiet happiness near him in the moonshine, and carve the initials of their names in the grayish-green bark on his trunk.
53:53	H:H	H:H	Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolian harps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers; now they seemed to hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones.
54:54	N:N	N:H	The wood-pigeons cooed as if to explain the feelings of the tree, and the cuckoo called out to tell him how many summer days he had yet to live.
55:55	H:H	H:H	Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through every fibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highest branches.
56:56	N:H	H:H	The tree felt itself stretching and spreading out, while through the root beneath the earth ran the warm vigor of life.
57:57	H:H	H:H	As he grew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmost boughs became broader and fuller; and in proportion to his growth, so was his self-satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyous longing to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, bright sun itself.
58:58	N:N	H:H	Already had his topmost branches pierced the clouds, which floated beneath them like troops of birds of passage, or large white swans; every leaf seemed gifted with sight, as if it possessed eyes to see.
59:59	N:N	H:H	The stars became visible in broad daylight, large and sparkling, like clear and gentle eyes.
60:60	N:N	H:H	They recalled to the memory the well-known look in the eyes of a child, or in the eyes of lovers who had once met beneath the branches of the old oak.
61:61	Sa:H	N:H	These were wonderful and happy moments for the old tree, full of peace and joy; and yet, amidst all this happiness, the tree felt a yearning, longing desire that all the other trees, bushes, herbs, and flowers beneath him, might be able also to rise higher, as he had done, and to see all this splendor, and experience the same happiness.
62:62	Sa:Sa	S:S	The grand, majestic oak could not be quite happy in the midst of his enjoyment, while all the rest, both great and small, were not with him.
63:63	Sa:N	S:S	And this feeling of yearning trembled through every branch, through every leaf, as warmly and fervently as if they had been the fibres of a human heart.
64:64	N:N	S:S	The summit of the tree waved to and fro, and bent downwards as if in his silent longing he sought for something.
65:65	N:N	N:N	Then there came to him the fragrance of thyme, followed by the more powerful scent of honeysuckle and violets; and he fancied he heard the note of the cuckoo.
66:66	H:H	H:H	At length his longing was satisfied.
67:67	Su+:N	H:H	Up through the clouds came the green summits of the forest trees, and beneath him, the oak saw them rising, and growing higher and higher.
68:68	N:N	H:H	Bush and herb shot upward, and some even tore themselves up by the roots to rise more quickly.
69:69	N:N	H:H	The birch-tree was the quickest of all.
70:70	N:N	N:H	Like a lightning flash the slender stem shot upwards in a zigzag line, the branches spreading around it like green gauze and banners.
71:71	N:N	H:H	Every native of the wood, even to the brown and feathery rushes, grew with the rest, while the birds ascended with the melody of song.
72:72	N:N	N:H	On a blade of grass, that fluttered in the air like a long, green ribbon, sat a grasshopper, cleaning his wings with his legs.
73:73	H:H	H:H	May beetles hummed, the bees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way; the air was filled with the sounds of song and gladness."
74:74	N:N	N:N	"But where is the little blue flower that grows by the water?" asked the oak, "and the purple bell-flower, and the daisy?"
75:75	N:N	N:N	You see the oak wanted to have them all with him.
76:76	N:N	N:N	"Here we are, we are here," sounded in voice and song.
77:77	N:N	N:N	"But the beautiful thyme of last summer, where is that? and the lilies-of-the-valley, which last year covered the earth with their bloom? and the wild apple-tree with its lovely blossoms, and all the glory of the wood, which has flourished year after year? even what may have but now sprouted forth could be with us here."
78:78	N:N	N:N	"We are here, we are here," sounded voices higher in the air, as if they had flown there beforehand.
79:79	H:H	H:H	"Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said the oak in a joyful tone.
80:80	H:N	H:H	"I have them all here, both great and small; not one has been forgotten.
81:81	H:H	H:H	Can such happiness be imagined?"
82:82	N:N	N:H	It seemed almost impossible.
83:83	N:N	H:H	"In heaven with the Eternal God, it can be imagined, and it is possible," sounded the reply through the air.
84:84	N:N	N:H	And the old tree, as it still grew upwards and onwards, felt that his roots were loosening themselves from the earth.
85:85	H:N	H:H	"It is right so, it is best," said the tree, "no fetters hold me now.
86:86	H:N	H:H	I can fly up to the very highest point in light and glory.
87:87	H:N	H:H	And all I love are with me, both small and great.
88:88	H:N	H:H	All- all are here."
89:89	N:N	N:N	Such was the dream of the old oak: and while he dreamed, a mighty storm came rushing over land and sea, at the holy Christmas time.
90:90	N:N	N:N	The sea rolled in great billows towards the shore.
91:91	N:N	N:F	There was a cracking and crushing heard in the tree.
92:92	Su+:N	-:F	The root was torn from the ground just at the moment when in his dream he fancied it was being loosened from the earth.
93:93	Su-:N	-:S	He fell- his three hundred and sixty-five years were passed as the single day of the Ephemera.
94:94	N:N	N:N	On the morning of Christmas-day, when the sun rose, the storm had ceased.
95:95	N:N	N:H	From all the churches sounded the festive bells, and from every hearth, even of the smallest hut, rose the smoke into the blue sky, like the smoke from the festive thank-offerings on the Druids' altars.
96:96	N:H	N:H	The sea gradually became calm, and on board a great ship that had withstood the tempest during the night, all the flags were displayed, as a token of joy and festivity.
97:97	Su-:N	-:-	"The tree is down!
98:98	Su-:N	-:-	The old oak,- our landmark on the coast!" exclaimed the sailors.
99:99	Su-:N	-:S	"It must have fallen in the storm of last night.
100:100	Sa:N	-:S	Who can replace it?
101:101	Sa:N	S:S	Alas! no one."
102:102	N:N	N:S	This was a funeral oration over the old tree; short, but well-meant.
103:103	N:N	N:H	There it lay stretched on the snow-covered shore, and over it sounded the notes of a song from the ship- a song of Christmas joy, and of the redemption of the soul of man, and of eternal life through Christ's atoning blood.
104:104	N:N	N:H	"Sing aloud on the happy morn, All is fulfilled, for Christ is born; With songs of joy let us loudly sing, 'Hallelujahs to Christ our King.'"
105:105	H:H	H:H	Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board the ship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, even as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream on that Christmas morn.
0:0	N:H	H:H	WE are in a rich, happy house, where the master, the servants, the friends of the family are full of joy and felicity.
1:1	N:H	H:H	For on this day a son and heir has been born, and mother and child are doing well.
2:2	N:N	N:N	The lamp in the bed-chamber had been partly shaded, and the windows were covered with heavy curtains of some costly silken material.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The carpet was thick and soft, like a covering of moss.
4:4	H:N	H:H	Everything invited to slumber, everything had a charming look of repose; and so the nurse had discovered, for she slept; and well she might sleep, while everything around her told of happiness and blessing.
5:5	N:N	H:H	The guardian angel of the house leaned against the head of the bed; while over the child was spread, as it were, a net of shining stars, and each star was a pearl of happiness.
6:6	N:N	H:H	All the good stars of life had brought their gifts to the newly born; here sparkled health, wealth, fortune, and love; in short, there seemed to be everything for which man could wish on earth.
7:7	H:N	H:H	"Everything has been bestowed here," said the guardian angel.
8:8	N:N	N:H	"No, not everything," said a voice near him- the voice of the good angel of the child; "one fairy has not yet brought her gift, but she will, even if years should elapse, she will bring her gift; it is the last pearl that is wanting."
9:9	D:N	D:N	"Wanting!" cried the guardian angel; "nothing must be wanting here; and if it is so, let us fetch it; let us seek the powerful fairy; let us go to her."
10:10	N:N	D:N	"She will come, she will come some day unsought!"
11:11	A:N	D:N	"Her pearl must not be missing; it must be there, that the crown, when worn, may be complete.
12:12	N:N	D:N	Where is she to be found?
13:13	N:N	D:N	Where does she dwell?" said the guardian angel.
14:14	N:N	N:N	"Tell me, and I will procure the pearl."
15:15	N:N	N:N	"Will you do that?" replied the good angel of the child.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"Then I will lead you to her directly, wherever she may be.
17:17	N:N	N:N	She has no abiding place; she rules in the palace of the emperor, sometimes she enters the peasant's humble cot; she passes no one without leaving a trace of her presence.
18:18	N:N	N:N	She brings her gift with her, whether it is a world or a bauble.
19:19	N:N	N:N	To this child she must come.
20:20	N:N	N:N	You think that to wait for this time would be long and useless.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Well, then, let us go for this pearl- the only one lacking amidst all this wealth."
22:22	N:N	N:N	Then hand-in-hand they floated away to the spot where the fairy was now lingering.
23:23	N:N	N:N	It was in a large house with dark windows and empty rooms, in which a peculiar stillness reigned.
24:24	N:N	N:N	A whole row of windows stood open, so that the rude wind could enter at its pleasure, and the long white curtains waved to and fro in the current of air.
25:25	N:N	N:S	In the centre of one of the rooms stood an open coffin, in which lay the body of a woman, still in the bloom of youth and very beautiful.
26:26	N:N	N:S	Fresh roses were scattered over her.
27:27	N:N	N:S	The delicate folded hands and the noble face glorified in death by the solemn, earnest look, which spoke of an entrance into a better world, were alone visible.
28:28	N:N	N:S	Around the coffin stood the husband and children, a whole troop, the youngest in the father's arms.
29:29	N:N	S:S	They were come to take a last farewell look of their mother.
30:30	N:N	N:S	The husband kissed her hand, which now lay like a withered leaf, but which a short time before had been diligently employed in deeds of love for them all.
31:31	Sa:Sa	S:S	Tears of sorrow rolled down their cheeks, and fell in heavy drops on the floor, but not a word was spoken.
32:32	N:Sa	S:S	The silence which reigned here expressed a world of grief.
33:33	Sa:Sa	S:S	With silent steps, still sobbing, they left the room.
34:34	N:N	N:S	A burning light remained in the room, and a long, red wick rose far above the flame, which fluttered in the draught of air.
35:35	N:Sa	S:S	Strange men came in and placed the lid of the coffin over the dead, and drove the nails firmly in; while the blows of the hammer resounded through the house, and echoed in the hearts that were bleeding.
36:36	F:N	N:N	"Whither art thou leading me?" asked the guardian angel.
37:37	N:N	N:N	"Here dwells no fairy whose pearl could be counted amongst the best gifts of life."
38:38	N:N	N:S	"Yes, she is here; here in this sacred hour," replied the angel, pointing to a corner of the room; and there,- where in her life-time, the mother had taken her seat amidst flowers and pictures: in that spot, where she, like the blessed fairy of the house, had welcomed husband, children, and friends, and, like a sunbeam, had spread joy and cheerfulness around her, the centre and heart of them all,- there, in that very spot, sat a strange woman, clothed in long, flowing garments, and occupying the place of the dead wife and mother.
39:39	N:N	N:S	It was the fairy, and her name was "Sorrow."
40:40	Sa:N	S:S	A hot tear rolled into her lap, and formed itself into a pearl, glowing with all the colors of the rainbow.
41:41	N:N	N:N	The angel seized it: the, pearl glittered like a star with seven-fold radiance.
42:42	N:N	H:N	The pearl of Sorrow, the last, which must not be wanting, increases the lustre, and explains the meaning of all the other pearls.
43:43	N:N	H:N	"Do you see the shimmer of the rainbow, which unites earth to heaven?"
44:44	N:N	N:N	So has there been a bridge built between this world and the next.
45:45	N:N	N:N	Through the night of the grave we gaze upwards beyond the stars to the end of all things.
46:46	N:N	H:N	Then we glance at the pearl of Sorrow, in which are concealed the wings which shall carry us away to eternal happiness.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN a village there once lived two men who had the same name.
1:1	N:N	N:N	They were both called Claus.
2:2	N:N	N:N	One of them had four horses, but the other had only one; so to distinguish them, people called the owner of the four horses, "Great Claus," and he who had only one, "Little Claus."
3:3	N:N	N:N	Now we shall hear what happened to them, for this is a true story.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Through the whole week, Little Claus was obliged to plough for Great Claus, and lend him his one horse; and once a week, on a Sunday, Great Claus lent him all his four horses.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Then how Little Claus would smack his whip over all five horses, they were as good as his own on that one day.
6:6	N:N	N:H	The sun shone brightly, and the church bells were ringing merrily as the people passed by, dressed in their best clothes, with their prayer-books under their arms.
7:7	N:N	N:H	They were going to hear the clergyman preach.
8:8	H:H	H:H	They looked at Little Claus ploughing with his five horses, and he was so proud that he smacked his whip, and said, "Gee-up, my five horses."
9:9	D:N	D:A	"You must not say that," said Big Claus; "for only one of them belongs to you."
10:10	N:N	N:N	But Little Claus soon forgot what he ought to say, and when any one passed he would call out, "Gee-up, my five horses!"
11:11	D:N	D:A	"Now I must beg you not to say that again," said Big Claus; "for if you do, I shall hit your horse on the head, so that he will drop dead on the spot, and there will be an end of him."
12:12	H:H	H:H	"I promise you I will not say it any more," said the other; but as soon as people came by, nodding to him, and wishing him "Good day," he became so pleased, and thought how grand it looked to have five horses ploughing in his field, that he cried out again, "Gee-up, all my horses!"
13:13	Su-:N	-:A	"I'll gee-up your horses for you," said Big Claus; and seizing a hammer, he struck the one horse of Little Claus on the head, and he fell dead instantly.
14:14	Sa:Sa	S:S	"Oh, now I have no horse at all, said Little Claus, weeping.
15:15	N:N	N:N	But after a while he took off the dead horse's skin, and hung the hide to dry in the wind.
16:16	N:N	N:N	Then he put the dry skin into a bag, and, placing it over his shoulder, went out into the next town to sell the horse's skin.
17:17	N:N	N:N	He had a very long way to go, and had to pass through a dark, gloomy forest.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Presently a storm arose, and he lost his way, and before he discovered the right path, evening came on, and it was still a long way to the town, and too far to return home before night.
19:19	N:N	N:N	Near the road stood a large farmhouse.
20:20	N:N	N:N	The shutters outside the windows were closed, but lights shone through the crevices at the top.
21:21	N:N	N:N	"I might get permission to stay here for the night," thought Little Claus; so he went up to the door and knocked.
22:22	N:N	N:N	The farmer's wife opened the door; but when she heard what he wanted, she told him to go away, as her husband would not allow her to admit strangers.
23:23	Sa:N	S:A	"Then I shall be obliged to lie out here," said Little Claus to himself, as the farmer's wife shut the door in his face.
24:24	N:N	N:N	Near to the farmhouse stood a large haystack, and between it and the house was a small shed, with a thatched roof.
25:25	N:N	N:F	"I can lie up there," said Little Claus, as he saw the roof; "it will make a famous bed, but I hope the stork will not fly down and bite my legs;" for on it stood a living stork, whose nest was in the roof.
26:26	N:N	N:N	So Little Claus climbed to the roof of the shed, and while he turned himself to get comfortable, he discovered that the wooden shutters, which were closed, did not reach to the tops of the windows of the farmhouse, so that he could see into a room, in which a large table was laid out with wine, roast meat, and a splendid fish.
27:27	H:N	H:N	The farmer's wife and the sexton were sitting at the table together; and she filled his glass, and helped him plenteously to fish, which appeared to be his favorite dish.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"If I could only get some, too," thought Little Claus; and then, as he stretched his neck towards the window he spied a large, beautiful pie,- indeed they had a glorious feast before them.
29:29	N:N	N:N	At this moment he heard some one riding down the road, towards the farmhouse.
30:30	N:N	N:N	It was the farmer returning home.
31:31	N:N	N:N	He was a good man, but still he had a very strange prejudice,- he could not bear the sight of a sexton.
32:32	N:N	N:N	If one appeared before him, he would put himself in a terrible rage.
33:33	N:N	N:N	In consequence of this dislike, the sexton had gone to visit the farmer's wife during her husband's absence from home, and the good woman had placed before him the best she had in the house to eat.
34:34	F:F	F:F	When she heard the farmer coming she was frightened, and begged the sexton to hide himself in a large empty chest that stood in the room.
35:35	F:N	F:F	He did so, for he knew her husband could not endure the sight of a sexton.
36:36	F:N	F:F	The woman then quickly put away the wine, and hid all the rest of the nice things in the oven; for if her husband had seen them he would have asked what they were brought out for.
37:37	Sa:N	N:S	"Oh, dear," sighed Little Claus from the top of the shed, as he saw all the good things disappear.
38:38	Su-:N	-:N	"Is any one up there?" asked the farmer, looking up and discovering Little Claus.
39:39	Su-:N	-:N	"Why are you lying up there?
40:40	N:N	N:N	Come down, and come into the house with me."
41:41	N:N	N:N	So Little Claus came down and told the farmer how he had lost his way and begged for a night's lodging.
42:42	N:N	N:N	"All right," said the farmer; "but we must have something to eat first."
43:43	N:H	N:H	The woman received them both very kindly, laid the cloth on a large table, and placed before them a dish of porridge.
44:44	N:N	N:S	The farmer was very hungry, and ate his porridge with a good appetite, but Little Claus could not help thinking of the nice roast meat, fish and pies, which he knew were in the oven.
45:45	N:N	N:N	Under the table, at his feet, lay the sack containing the horse's skin, which he intended to sell at the next town.
46:46	N:Sa	N:S	Now Little Claus did not relish the porridge at all, so he trod with his foot on the sack under the table, and the dry skin squeaked quite loud.
47:47	N:N	N:N	"Hush!" said Little Claus to his sack, at the same time treading upon it again, till it squeaked louder than before.
48:48	Su-:N	N:N	"Hallo! what have you got in your sack!" asked the farmer.
49:49	N:N	N:N	"Oh, it is a conjuror," said Little Claus; "and he says we need not eat porridge, for he has conjured the oven full of roast meat, fish, and pie."
50:50	Su+:N	+:H	"Wonderful!" cried the farmer, starting up and opening the oven door; and there lay all the nice things hidden by the farmer's wife, but which he supposed had been conjured there by the wizard under the table.
51:51	F:N	N:N	The woman dared not say anything; so she placed the things before them, and they both ate of the fish, the meat, and the pastry.
52:52	N:N	N:N	Then Little Claus trod again upon his sack, and it squeaked as before.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"What does he say now?" asked the farmer.
54:54	N:N	N:N	"He says," replied Little Claus, "that there are three bottles of wine for us, standing in the corner, by the oven."
55:55	H:H	H:H	So the woman was obliged to bring out the wine also, which she had hidden, and the farmer drank it till he became quite merry.
56:56	N:N	N:N	He would have liked such a conjuror as Little Claus carried in his sack.
57:57	N:N	N:N	"Could he conjure up the evil one?" asked the farmer.
58:58	H:H	H:H	"I should like to see him now, while I am so merry."
59:59	N:N	N:N	"Oh, yes!" replied Little Claus, "my conjuror can do anything I ask him,- can you not?" he asked, treading at the same time on the sack till it squeaked.
60:60	N:F	N:F	"Do you hear? he answers 'Yes,' but he fears that we shall not like to look at him."
61:61	N:H	N:H	"Oh, I am not afraid.
62:62	N:N	N:N	What will he be like?"
63:63	N:N	N:N	"Well, he is very much like a sexton."
64:64	N:N	N:N	"Ha!" said the farmer, "then he must be ugly.
65:65	N:N	N:N	Do you know I cannot endure the sight of a sexton.
66:66	N:N	N:N	However, that doesn't matter, I shall know who it is; so I shall not mind.
67:67	N:N	N:H	Now then, I have got up my courage, but don't let him come too near me."
68:68	N:N	N:N	"Stop, I must ask the conjuror," said Little Claus; so he trod on the bag, and stooped his ear down to listen.
69:69	N:N	N:N	"What does he say?"
70:70	N:N	N:N	"He says that you must go and open that large chest which stands in the corner, and you will see the evil one crouching down inside; but you must hold the lid firmly, that he may not slip out."
71:71	F:F	F:F	"Will you come and help me hold it?" said the farmer, going towards the chest in which his wife had hidden the sexton, who now lay inside, very much frightened.
72:72	N:N	N:N	The farmer opened the lid a very little way, and peeped in.
73:73	Su-:N	-:N	"Oh," cried he, springing backwards, "I saw him, and he is exactly like our sexton.
74:74	Su-:F	-:F	How dreadful it is!"
75:75	N:N	N:N	So after that he was obliged to drink again, and they sat and drank till far into the night.
76:76	N:N	N:N	"You must sell your conjuror to me," said the farmer; "ask as much as you like, I will pay it; indeed I would give you directly a whole bushel of gold."
77:77	N:N	N:N	"No, indeed, I cannot," said Little Claus; "only think how much profit I could make out of this conjuror."
78:78	N:N	N:N	"But I should like to have him," said the fanner, still continuing his entreaties.
79:79	N:N	N:N	"Well," said Little Claus at length, "you have been so good as to give me a night's lodging, I will not refuse you; you shall have the conjuror for a bushel of money, but I will have quite full measure."
80:80	N:N	N:N	"So you shall," said the farmer; "but you must take away the chest as well.
81:81	D:N	D:F	I would not have it in the house another hour; there is no knowing if he may not be still there."
82:82	N:N	N:N	So Little Claus gave the farmer the sack containing the dried horse's skin, and received in exchange a bushel of money- full measure.
83:83	N:N	N:N	The farmer also gave him a wheelbarrow on which to carry away the chest and the gold.
84:84	N:N	N:N	"Farewell," said Little Claus, as he went off with his money and the great chest, in which the sexton lay still concealed.
85:85	N:N	N:N	On one side of the forest was a broad, deep river, the water flowed so rapidly that very few were able to swim against the stream.
86:86	N:N	N:N	A new bridge had lately been built across it, and in the middle of this bridge Little Claus stopped, and said, loud enough to be heard by the sexton, "Now what shall I do with this stupid chest; it is as heavy as if it were full of stones: I shall be tired if I roll it any farther, so I may as well throw it in the river; if it swims after me to my house, well and good, and if not, it will not much matter."
87:87	N:N	N:N	So he seized the chest in his hand and lifted it up a little, as if he were going to throw it into the water.
88:88	F:N	F:F	"No, leave it alone," cried the sexton from within the chest; "let me out first."
89:89	N:F	N:F	"Oh," exclaimed Little Claus, pretending to be frightened, "he is in there still, is he?
90:90	N:N	N:F	I must throw him into the river, that he may be drowned."
91:91	F:N	F:F	"Oh, no; oh, no," cried the sexton; "I will give you a whole bushel full of money if you will let me go.
92:92	N:N	N:N	"Why, that is another matter," said Little Claus, opening the chest.
93:93	N:N	N:N	The sexton crept out, pushed the empty chest into the water, and went to his house, then he measured out a whole bushel full of gold for Little Claus, who had already received one from the farmer, so that now he had a barrow full.
94:94	H:N	H:N	"I have been well paid for my horse," said he to himself when he reached home, entered his own room, and emptied all his money into a heap on the floor.
95:95	N:N	N:N	"How vexed Great Claus will be when he finds out how rich I have become all through my one horse; but I shall not tell him exactly how it all happened."
96:96	N:N	N:N	Then he sent a boy to Great Claus to borrow a bushel measure.
97:97	D:N	N:N	"What can he want it for?" thought Great Claus; so he smeared the bottom of the measure with tar, that some of whatever was put into it might stick there and remain.
98:98	N:N	N:N	And so it happened; for when the measure returned, three new silver florins were sticking to it.
99:99	N:N	N:+	"What does this mean?" said Great Claus; so he ran off directly to Little Claus, and asked, "Where did you get so much money?"
100:100	N:N	N:N	"Oh, for my horse's skin, I sold it yesterday."
101:101	N:N	N:N	"It was certainly well paid for then," said Great Claus; and he ran home to his house, seized a hatchet, and knocked all his four horses on the head, flayed off their skins, and took them to the town to sell.
102:102	N:N	N:N	"Skins, skins, who'll buy skins?" he cried, as he went through the streets.
103:103	N:N	N:N	All the shoemakers and tanners came running, and asked how much he wanted for them.
104:104	N:N	N:N	"A bushel of money, for each," replied Great Claus.
105:105	Su-:N	-:-	"Are you mad?" they all cried; "do you think we have money to spend by the bushel?"
106:106	N:N	N:N	"Skins, skins," he cried again, "who'll buy skins?" but to all who inquired the price, his answer was, "a bushel of money."
107:107	A:N	A:A	"He is making fools of us," said they all; then the shoemakers took their straps, and the tanners their leather aprons, and began to beat Great Claus.
108:108	A:A	A:A	"Skins, skins!" they cried, mocking him; "yes, we'll mark your skin for you, till it is black and blue."
109:109	A:N	A:A	"Out of the town with him," said they.
110:110	F:N	F:F	And Great Claus was obliged to run as fast as he could, he had never before been so thoroughly beaten.
111:111	A:N	A:A	"Ah," said he, as he came to his house; "Little Claus shall pay me for this; I will beat him to death."
112:112	N:N	N:N	Meanwhile the old grandmother of Little Claus died.
113:113	Sa:Sa	S:S	She had been cross, unkind, and really spiteful to him; but he was very sorry, and took the dead woman and laid her in his warm bed to see if he could bring her to life again.
114:114	N:N	N:S	There he determined that she should lie the whole night, while he seated himself in a chair in a corner of the room as he had often done before.
115:115	N:N	N:F	During the night, as he sat there, the door opened, and in came Great Claus with a hatchet.
116:116	N:N	N:F	He knew well where Little Claus's bed stood; so he went right up to it, and struck the old grandmother on the head. thinking it must be Little Claus.
117:117	A:N	A:A	"There," cried he, "now you cannot make a fool of me again;" and then he went home.
118:118	Su-:N	-:A	"That is a very wicked man," thought Little Claus; "he meant to kill me.
119:119	N:N	N:N	It is a good thing for my old grandmother that she was already dead, or he would have taken her life."
120:120	N:N	N:N	Then he dressed his old grandmother in her best clothes, borrowed a horse of his neighbor, and harnessed it to a cart.
121:121	N:N	N:N	Then he placed the old woman on the back seat, so that she might not fall out as he drove, and rode away through the wood.
122:122	N:N	N:N	By sunrise they reached a large inn, where Little Claus stopped and went to get something to eat.
123:123	N:A	N:A	The landlord was a rich man, and a good man too; but as passionate as if he had been made of pepper and snuff.
124:124	N:N	N:N	"Good morning," said he to Little Claus; "you are come betimes to-day."
125:125	N:N	N:N	"Yes," said Little Claus; "I am going to the town with my old grandmother; she is sitting at the back of the wagon, but I cannot bring her into the room.
126:126	N:N	N:N	Will you take her a glass of mead? but you must speak very loud, for she cannot hear well."
127:127	N:N	N:N	"Yes, certainly I will," replied the landlord; and, pouring out a glass of mead, he carried it out to the dead grandmother, who sat upright in the cart.
128:128	N:N	N:N	"Here is a glass of mead from your grandson," said the landlord.
129:129	N:N	N:N	The dead woman did not answer a word, but sat quite still.
130:130	N:N	N:N	"Do you not hear?" cried the landlord as loud as he could; "here is a glass of mead from your grandson."
131:131	A:A	A:A	Again and again he bawled it out, but as she did not stir he flew into a passion, and threw the glass of mead in her face; it struck her on the nose, and she fell backwards out of the cart, for she was only seated there, not tied in.
132:132	Su-:N	A:A	Hallo!" cried Little Claus, rushing out of the door, and seizing hold of the landlord by the throat; "you have killed my grandmother; see, here is a great hole in her forehead."
133:133	Su-:N	-:F	"Oh, how unfortunate," said the landlord, wringing his hands.
134:134	D:N	-:S	"This all comes of my fiery temper.
135:135	F:N	F:F	Dear Little Claus, I will give you a bushel of money; I will bury your grandmother as if she were my own; only keep silent, or else they will cut off my head, and that would be disagreeable."
136:136	N:N	N:N	So it happened that Little Claus received another bushel of money, and the landlord buried his old grandmother as if she had been his own.
137:137	N:N	N:N	When Little Claus reached home again, he immediately sent a boy to Great Claus, requesting him to lend him a bushel measure.
138:138	Su-:N	-:-	"How is this?" thought Great Claus; "did I not kill him?
139:139	N:N	-:-	I must go and see for myself."
140:140	N:N	N:N	So he went to Little Claus, and took the bushel measure with him.
141:141	N:Su-	-:-	"How did you get all this money?" asked Great Claus, staring with wide open eyes at his neighbor's treasures.
142:142	N:N	N:N	"You killed my grandmother instead of me," said Little Claus; "so I have sold her for a bushel of money."
143:143	N:N	N:N	"That is a good price at all events," said Great Claus.
144:144	N:N	N:N	So he went home, took a hatchet, and killed his old grandmother with one blow.
145:145	N:N	N:N	Then he placed her on a cart, and drove into the town to the apothecary, and asked him if he would buy a dead body.
146:146	N:N	N:N	"Whose is it, and where did you get it?" asked the apothecary.
147:147	N:N	N:N	"It is my grandmother," he replied; "I killed her with a blow, that I might get a bushel of money for her."
148:148	Su-:N	-:F	"Heaven preserve us!" cried the apothecary, "you are out of your mind.
149:149	D:N	-:F	Don't say such things, or you will lose your head."
150:150	D:N	D:F	And then he talked to him seriously about the wicked deed he had done, and told him that such a wicked man would surely be punished.
151:151	F:F	F:F	Great Claus got so frightened that he rushed out of the surgery, jumped into the cart, whipped up his horses, and drove home quickly.
152:152	N:F	N:F	The apothecary and all the people thought him mad, and let him drive where he liked.
153:153	A:N	A:A	"You shall pay for this," said Great Claus, as soon as he got into the highroad, "that you shall, Little Claus."
154:154	N:N	N:A	So as soon as he reached home he took the largest sack he could find and went over to Little Claus.
155:155	A:N	A:A	"You have played me another trick," said he.
156:156	A:N	A:A	"First, I killed all my horses, and then my old grandmother, and it is all your fault; but you shall not make a fool of me any more."
157:157	A:N	A:A	So he laid hold of Little Claus round the body, and pushed him into the sack, which he took on his shoulders, saying, "Now I'm going to drown you in the river.
158:158	N:N	N:N	He had a long way to go before he reached the river, and Little Claus was not a very light weight to carry.
159:159	N:N	N:N	The road led by the church, and as they passed he could hear the organ playing and the people singing beautifully.
160:160	N:N	N:N	Great Claus put down the sack close to the church-door, and thought he might as well go in and hear a psalm before he went any farther.
161:161	N:N	N:N	Little Claus could not possibly get out of the sack, and all the people were in church; so in he went.
162:162	F:N	F:S	"Oh dear, oh dear," sighed Little Claus in the sack, as he turned and twisted about; but he found he could not loosen the string with which it was tied.
163:163	N:N	N:N	Presently an old cattle driver, with snowy hair, passed by, carrying a large staff in his hand, with which he drove a large herd of cows and oxen before him.
164:164	N:N	N:N	They stumbled against the sack in which lay Little Claus, and turned it over.
165:165	N:N	N:S	"Oh dear," sighed Little Claus, "I am very young, yet I am soon going to heaven."
166:166	Sa:Sa	S:S	"And I, poor fellow," said the drover, "I who am so old already, cannot get there."
167:167	N:N	N:N	"Open the sack," cried Little Claus; "creep into it instead of me, and you will soon be there."
168:168	H:N	H:N	"With all my heart," replied the drover, opening the sack, from which sprung Little Claus as quickly as possible.
169:169	N:N	N:N	"Will you take care of my cattle?" said the old man, as he crept into the bag.
170:170	N:N	N:N	"Yes," said Little Claus, and he tied up the sack, and then walked off with all the cows and oxen.
171:171	N:N	N:N	When Great Claus came out of church, he took up the sack, and placed it on his shoulders.
172:172	N:N	N:N	It appeared to have become lighter, for the old drover was not half so heavy as Little Claus.
173:173	Su+:N	+:N	"How light he seems now," said he.
174:174	H:N	H:N	"Ah, it is because I have been to a church."
175:175	N:N	N:N	So he walked on to the river, which was deep and broad, and threw the sack containing the old drover into the water, believing it to be Little Claus.
176:176	H:N	H:A	"There you may lie!" he exclaimed; "you will play me no more tricks now."
177:177	N:N	N:N	Then he turned to go home, but when he came to a place where two roads crossed, there was Little Claus driving the cattle.
178:178	Su-:N	-:-	"How is this?" said Great Claus.
179:179	Su-:N	-:-	"Did I not drown you just now?"
180:180	N:N	N:N	"Yes," said Little Claus; "you threw me into the river about half an hour ago."
181:181	N:N	N:N	"But wherever did you get all these fine beasts?" asked Great Claus.
182:182	N:N	N:N	"These beasts are sea-cattle," replied Little Claus.
183:183	H:N	H:N	"I'll tell you the whole story, and thank you for drowning me; I am above you now, I am really very rich.
184:184	N:F	N:F	I was frightened, to be sure, while I lay tied up in the sack, and the wind whistled in my ears when you threw me into the river from the bridge, and I sank to the bottom immediately; but I did not hurt myself, for I fell upon beautifully soft grass which grows down there; and in a moment, the sack opened, and the sweetest little maiden came towards me.
185:185	N:N	N:N	She had snow-white robes, and a wreath of green leaves on her wet hair.
186:186	N:N	N:N	She took me by the hand, and said, 'So you are come, Little Claus, and here are some cattle for you to begin with.
187:187	N:N	N:N	About a mile farther on the road, there is another herd for you.'
188:188	N:N	N:N	Then I saw that the river formed a great highway for the people who live in the sea.
189:189	N:N	N:N	They were walking and driving here and there from the sea to the land at the, spot where the river terminates.
190:190	N:N	N:N	The bed of the river was covered with the loveliest flowers and sweet fresh grass.
191:191	N:N	N:N	The fish swam past me as rapidly as the birds do here in the air.
192:192	N:N	N:N	How handsome all the people were, and what fine cattle were grazing on the hills and in the valleys!"
193:193	N:N	N:N	"But why did you come up again," said Great Claus, "if it was all so beautiful down there?
194:194	N:N	N:N	I should not have done so?"
195:195	N:N	N:N	"Well," said Little Claus, "it was good policy on my part; you heard me say just now that I was told by the sea-maiden to go a mile farther on the road, and I should find a whole herd of cattle.
196:196	N:N	N:N	By the road she meant the river, for she could not travel any other way; but I knew the winding of the river, and how it bends, sometimes to the right and sometimes to the left, and it seemed a long way, so I chose a shorter one; and, by coming up to the land, and then driving across the fields back again to the river, I shall save half a mile, and get all my cattle more quickly."
197:197	Su+:N	+:N	"What a lucky fellow you are!" exclaimed Great Claus.
198:198	N:N	+:N	"Do you think I should get any sea-cattle if I went down to the bottom of the river?"
199:199	N:N	N:N	"Yes, I think so," said Little Claus; "but I cannot carry you there in a sack, you are too heavy.
200:200	N:H	N:H	However if you will go there first, and then creep into a sack, I will throw you in with the greatest pleasure."
201:201	H:N	H:N	"Thank you," said Great Claus; "but remember, if I do not get any sea-cattle down there I shall come up again and give you a good thrashing."
202:202	N:N	N:N	"No, now, don't be too fierce about it!" said Little Claus, as they walked on towards the river.
203:203	N:N	N:N	When they approached it, the cattle, who were very thirsty, saw the stream, and ran down to drink.
204:204	N:N	N:N	"See what a hurry they are in," said Little Claus, "they are longing to get down again," "Come, help me, make haste," said Great Claus; "or you'll get beaten."
205:205	N:N	N:N	So he crept into a large sack, which had been lying across the back of one of the oxen.
206:206	N:N	N:N	"Put in a stone," said Great Claus, "or I may not sink."
207:207	N:N	N:N	"Oh, there's not much fear of that," he replied; still he put a large stone into the bag, and then tied it tightly, and gave it a push.
208:208	N:N	N:N	"Plump!"
209:209	N:N	N:N	In went Great Claus, and immediately sank to the bottom of the river.
210:210	N:N	N:N	"I'm afraid he will not find any cattle," said Little Claus, and then he drove his own beasts homewards.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a little boy who had caught cold; he had gone out and got wet feet.
1:1	N:N	N:N	Nobody had the least idea how it had happened; the weather was quite dry.
2:2	N:N	N:N	His mother undressed him, put him to bed, and ordered the teapot to be brought in, that she might make him a good cup of tea from the elder-tree blossoms, which is so warming.
3:3	N:H	N:H	At the same time, the kind-hearted old man who lived by himself in the upper storey of the house came in; he led a lonely life, for he had no wife and children; but he loved the children of others very much, and he could tell so many fairy tales and stories, that it was a pleasure to hear him.
4:4	N:N	N:N	"Now, drink your tea," said the mother; "perhaps you will hear a story."
5:5	H:H	H:H	"Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and nodded smilingly.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"But how did the little fellow get his wet feet?" he then asked.
7:7	N:N	N:N	"That," replied the mother, "nobody can understand."
8:8	N:N	N:N	"Will you tell me a story?" asked the boy.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"Yes, if you can tell me as nearly as possible how deep is the gutter in the little street where you go to school."
10:10	N:N	N:N	"Just half as high as my top-boots," replied the boy; "but then I must stand in the deepest holes."
11:11	N:N	N:N	"There, now we know where you got your wet feet," said the old man.
12:12	Sa:N	N:N	"I ought to tell you a story, but the worst of it is, I do not know any more."
13:13	N:N	N:N	"You can make one up," said the little boy.
14:14	N:N	N:N	"Mother says you can tell a fairy tale about anything you look at or touch."
15:15	D:N	N:N	"That is all very well, but such tales or stories are worth nothing!
16:16	N:N	N:N	No, the right ones come by themselves and knock at my forehead saying: 'Here I am.'"
17:17	N:H	N:H	"Will not one knock soon?" asked the boy; and the mother smiled while she put elder-tree blossoms into the teapot and poured boiling water over them.
18:18	N:N	N:N	"Pray, tell me a story."
19:19	Su+:N	H:N	"Yes, if stories came by themselves; they are so proud, they only come when they please.- But wait," he said suddenly, "there is one.
20:20	N:N	N:N	Look at the teapot; there is a story in it now."
21:21	N:N	H:H	And the little boy looked at the teapot; the lid rose up gradually, the elder-tree blossoms sprang forth one by one, fresh and white; long boughs came forth; even out of the spout they grew up in all directions, and formed a bush- nay, a large elder tree, which stretched its branches up to the bed and pushed the curtains aside; and there were so many blossoms and such a sweet fragrance!
22:22	Su+:N	+:H	In the midst of the tree sat a kindly-looking old woman with a strange dress; it was as green as the leaves, and trimmed with large white blossoms, so that it was difficult to say whether it was real cloth, or the leaves and blossoms of the elder-tree.
23:23	N:N	N:N	"What is this woman's name?" asked the little boy.
24:24	N:N	N:N	"Well, the Romans and Greeks used to call her a Dryad," said the old man; "but we do not understand that.
25:25	N:N	N:N	Out in the sailors' quarter they give her a better name; there she is called elder-tree mother.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Now, you must attentively listen to her and look at the beautiful elder-tree.
27:27	N:N	N:H	"Just such a large tree, covered with flowers, stands out there; it grew in the corner of an humble little yard; under this tree sat two old people one afternoon in the beautiful sunshine.
28:28	H:H	H:H	He was an old, old sailor, and she his old wife; they had already great-grandchildren, and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could not remember the date, and the elder-tree mother was sitting in the tree and looked as pleased as this one here.
29:29	N:N	H:H	'I know very well when the golden wedding is to take place,' she said; but they did not hear it- they were talking of bygone days.
30:30	N:N	H:H	"'Well, do you remember?' said the old sailor, 'when we were quite small and used to run about and play- it was in the very same yard where we now are- we used to put little branches into the ground and make a garden.'
31:31	N:N	N:N	"'Yes,' said the old woman, 'I remember it very well; we used to water the branches, and one of them, an elder-tree branch, took root, and grew and became the large tree under which we are now sitting as old people.'
32:32	N:N	N:N	"'Certainly, you are right,' he said; 'and in yonder corner stood a large water-tub; there I used to sail my boat, which I had cut out myself- it sailed so well; but soon I had to sail somewhere else.'
33:33	N:Sa	N:S	"'But first we went to school to learn something,' she said, 'and then we were confirmed; we both wept on that day, but in the afternoon we went out hand in hand, and ascended the high round tower and looked out into the wide world right over Copenhagen and the sea; then we walked to Fredericksburg, where the king and the queen were sailing about in their magnificent boat on the canals.'
34:34	N:N	N:S	"'But soon I had to sail about somewhere else, and for many years I was travelling about far away from home.'
35:35	Sa:Sa	N:S	"'And I often cried about you, for I was afraid lest you were drowned and lying at the bottom of the sea.
36:36	N:N	N:S	Many a time I got up in the night and looked if the weathercock had turned; it turned often, but you did not return.
37:37	N:N	N:S	I remember one day distinctly: the rain was pouring down in torrents; the dust-man had come to the house where I was in service; I went down with the dust-bin and stood for a moment in the doorway, and looked at the dreadful weather.
38:38	N:N	N:N	Then the postman gave me a letter; it was from you.
39:39	N:N	N:N	Heavens! how that letter had travelled about.
40:40	H:H	H:H	I tore it open and read it; I cried and laughed at the same time, and was so happy!
41:41	N:N	H:H	Therein was written that you were staying in the hot countries, where the coffee grows.
42:42	N:N	H:N	These must be marvellous countries.
43:43	N:N	N:N	You said a great deal about them, and I read all while the rain was pouring down and I was standing there with the dust-bin.
44:44	H:N	H:N	Then suddenly some one put his arm round my waist-' "'Yes, and you gave him a hearty smack on the cheek,' said the old man.
45:45	H:N	H:H	"'I did not know that it was you- you had come as quickly as your letter; and you looked so handsome, and so you do still.
46:46	N:N	H:H	You had a large yellow silk handkerchief in your pocket and a shining hat on.
47:47	H:N	H:H	You looked so well, and the weather in the street was horrible!'
48:48	H:N	H:H	"'Then we married,' he said.
49:49	H:N	H:H	'Do you remember how we got our first boy, and then Mary, Niels, Peter, John, and Christian?' 'Oh yes; and now they have all grown up, and have become useful members of society, whom everybody cares for.'
50:50	H:N	H:H	"'And their children have had children again,' said the old sailor.
51:51	N:N	H:H	'Yes, these are children's children, and they are strong and healthy.
52:52	N:N	H:H	If I am not mistaken, our wedding took place at this season of the year.'
53:53	H:N	H:H	"'Yes, to-day is your golden wedding-day,' said the little elder-tree mother, stretching her head down between the two old people, who thought that she was their neighbour who was nodding to them; they looked at each other and clasped hands.
54:54	N:N	H:H	Soon afterwards the children and grandchildren came, for they knew very well that it was the golden wedding-day; they had already wished them joy and happiness in the morning, but the old people had forgotten it, although they remembered things so well that had passed many, many years ago.
55:55	H:H	H:H	The elder-tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the faces of the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy; the youngest of the grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that there would be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes; and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with the others."
56:56	N:N	H:N	"But that was no fairy tale," said the little boy who had listened to it.
57:57	N:N	N:N	"You will presently understand it," said the old man who told the story.
58:58	N:N	N:N	"Let us ask little elder-tree mother about it."
59:59	N:N	N:N	"That was no fairy tale," said the little elder-tree mother; "but now it comes!
60:60	N:N	N:N	Real life furnishes us with subjects for the most wonderful fairy tales; for otherwise my beautiful elder-bush could not have grown forth out of the teapot."
61:61	H:N	H:H	And then she took the little boy out of bed and placed him on her bosom; the elder branches, full of blossoms, closed over them; it was as if they sat in a thick leafy bower which flew with them through the air; it was beautiful beyond all description.
62:62	N:N	H:H	The little elder-tree mother had suddenly become a charming young girl, but her dress was still of the same green material, covered with white blossoms, as the elder-tree mother had worn; she had a real elder blossom on her bosom, and a wreath of the same flowers was wound round her curly golden hair; her eyes were so large and so blue that it was wonderful to look at them.
63:63	H:H	H:H	She and the boy kissed each other, and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys.
64:64	N:N	H:H	They walked hand in hand out of the bower, and now stood at home in a beautiful flower garden.
65:65	N:N	N:H	Near the green lawn the father's walking-stick was tied to a post.
66:66	N:N	N:H	There was life in this stick for the little ones, for as soon as they seated themselves upon it the polished knob turned into a neighing horse's head, a long black mane was fluttering in the wind, and four strong slender legs grew out.
67:67	N:N	N:H	The animal was fiery and spirited; they galloped round the lawn.
68:68	H:N	H:H	"Hooray! now we shall ride far away, many miles!" said the boy; "we shall ride to the nobleman's estate where we were last year."
69:69	N:N	H:H	And they rode round the lawn again, and the little girl, who, as we know, was no other than the little elder-tree mother, continually cried, "Now we are in the country!
70:70	N:N	N:N	Do you see the farmhouse there, with the large baking stove, which projects like a gigantic egg out of the wall into the road?
71:71	N:N	N:N	The elder-tree spreads its branches over it, and the cock struts about and scratches for the hens.
72:72	N:N	N:N	Look how proud he is!
73:73	N:N	N:N	Now we are near the church; it stands on a high hill, under the spreading oak trees; one of them is half dead!
74:74	N:N	N:N	Now we are at the smithy, where the fire roars and the half-naked men beat with their hammers so that the sparks fly far and wide.
75:75	N:N	N:N	Let's be off to the beautiful farm!"
76:76	N:N	N:H	And they passed by everything the little girl, who was sitting behind on the stick, described, and the boy saw it, and yet they only went round the lawn.
77:77	N:N	N:H	Then they played in a side-walk, and marked out a little garden on the ground; she took elder-blossoms out of her hair and planted them, and they grew exactly like those the old people planted when they were children, as we have heard before.
78:78	N:N	N:N	They walked about hand in hand, just as the old couple had done when they were little, but they did not go to the round tower nor to the Fredericksburg garden.
79:79	N:N	N:N	No; the little girl seized the boy round the waist, and then they flew far into the country.
80:80	H:N	H:N	It was spring and it became summer, it was autumn and it became winter, and thousands of pictures reflected themselves in the boy's eyes and heart, and the little girl always sang again, "You will never forget that!"
81:81	N:N	N:N	And during their whole flight the elder-tree smelt so sweetly; he noticed the roses and the fresh beeches, but the elder-tree smelt much stronger, for the flowers were fixed on the little girl's bosom, against which the boy often rested his head during the flight.
82:82	N:N	H:N	"It is beautiful here in spring," said the little girl, and they were again in the green beechwood, where the thyme breathed forth sweet fragrance at their feet, and the pink anemones looked lovely in the green moss.
83:83	H:N	H:N	"Oh! that it were always spring in the fragrant beechwood!"
84:84	H:N	H:H	"Here it is splendid in summer!" she said, and they passed by old castles of the age of chivalry.
85:85	N:N	H:H	The high walls and indented battlements were reflected in the water of the ditches, on which swans were swimming and peering into the old shady avenues.
86:86	N:N	N:N	The corn waved in the field like a yellow sea.
87:87	N:N	N:N	Red and yellow flowers grew in the ditches, wild hops and convolvuli in full bloom in the hedges.
88:88	N:N	N:H	In the evening the moon rose, large and round, and the hayricks in the meadows smelt sweetly.
89:89	H:N	H:N	"One can never forget it!"
90:90	N:N	N:H	"Here it is beautiful in autumn!" said the little girl, and the atmosphere seemed twice as high and blue, while the wood shone with crimson, green, and gold.
91:91	N:N	N:N	The hounds were running off, flocks of wild fowl flew screaming over the barrows, while the bramble bushes twined round the old stones.
92:92	N:N	N:N	The dark-blue sea was covered with white-sailed ships, and in the barns sat old women, girls, and children picking hops into a large tub; the young ones sang songs, and the old people told fairy tales about goblins and sorcerers.
93:93	N:N	H:H	It could not be more pleasant anywhere.
94:94	H:N	H:H	"Here it's agreeable in winter!" said the little girl, and all the trees were covered with hoar-frost, so that they looked like white coral.
95:95	N:N	N:N	The snow creaked under one's feet, as if one had new boots on.
96:96	N:N	N:N	One shooting star after another traversed the sky.
97:97	N:N	N:H	In the room the Christmas tree was lit, and there were song and merriment.
98:98	N:N	H:H	In the peasant's cottage the violin sounded, and games were played for apple quarters; even the poorest child said, "It is beautiful in winter!"
99:99	H:N	H:H	And indeed it was beautiful!
100:100	N:N	N:N	And the little girl showed everything to the boy, and the elder-tree continued to breathe forth sweet perfume, while the red flag with the white cross was streaming in the wind; it was the flag under which the old sailor had served.
101:101	N:N	N:N	The boy became a youth; he was to go out into the wide world, far away to the countries where the coffee grows.
102:102	N:N	N:N	But at parting the little girl took an elder-blossom from her breast and gave it to him as a keepsake.
103:103	N:N	N:N	He placed it in his prayer-book, and when he opened it in distant lands it was always at the place where the flower of remembrance was lying; and the more he looked at it the fresher it became, so that he could almost smell the fragrance of the woods at home.
104:104	N:N	H:N	He distinctly saw the little girl, with her bright blue eyes, peeping out from behind the petals, and heard her whispering, "Here it is beautiful in spring, in summer, in autumn, and in winter," and hundreds of pictures passed through his mind.
105:105	N:N	N:N	Thus many years rolled by.
106:106	N:N	N:H	He had now become an old man, and was sitting, with his old wife, under an elder-tree in full bloom.
107:107	N:N	H:H	They held each other by the hand exactly as the great-grandfather and the great-grandmother had done outside, and, like them, they talked about bygone days and of their golden wedding.
108:108	H:N	H:H	The little girl with the blue eyes and elder-blossoms in her hair was sitting high up in the tree, and nodded to them, saying, "To-day is the golden wedding!"
109:109	H:N	H:H	And then she took two flowers out of her wreath and kissed them.
110:110	N:N	H:H	They glittered at first like silver, then like gold, and when she placed them on the heads of the old people each flower became a golden crown.
111:111	N:N	H:H	There they both sat like a king and queen under the sweet-smelling tree, which looked exactly like an elder-tree, and he told his wife the story of the elder-tree mother as it had been told him when he was a little boy.
112:112	N:N	H:H	They were both of opinion that the story contained many points like their own, and these similarities they liked best.
113:113	N:N	N:N	"Yes, so it is," said the little girl in the tree.
114:114	N:N	N:N	"Some call me Little Elder-tree Mother; others a Dryad; but my real name is 'Remembrance.'
115:115	N:N	N:N	It is I who sit in the tree which grows and grows.
116:116	N:N	N:N	I can remember things and tell stories!
117:117	N:N	N:N	But let's see if you have still got your flower."
118:118	N:N	N:H	And the old man opened his prayer-book; the elder-blossom was still in it, and as fresh as if it had only just been put in.
119:119	N:N	N:H	Remembrance nodded, and the two old people, with the golden crowns on their heads, sat in the glowing evening sun.
120:120	N:N	H:H	They closed their eyes and- and- Well, now the story is ended!
121:121	Su-:N	N:N	The little boy in bed did not know whether he had dreamt it or heard it told; the teapot stood on the table, but no elder-tree was growing out of it, and the old man who had told the story was on the point of leaving the room, and he did go out.
122:122	H:N	H:H	"How beautiful it was!" said the little boy.
123:123	H:N	H:H	"Mother, I have been to warm countries!"
124:124	H:N	H:H	"I believe you," said the mother; "if one takes two cups of hot elder-tea it is quite natural that one gets into warm countries!"
125:125	N:N	N:N	And she covered him up well, so that he might not take cold.
126:126	N:N	N:N	"You have slept soundly while I was arguing with the old man whether it was a story or a fairy tale!"
127:127	N:N	N:N	"And what has become of the little elder-tree mother?" asked the boy.
128:128	N:N	N:N	"She is in the teapot," said the mother; "and there she may remain."
0:0	Sa:N	N:S	"My poor flowers are quite dead," said little Ida, "they were so pretty yesterday evening, and now all the leaves are hanging down quite withered.
1:1	N:H	N:H	What do they do that for," she asked, of the student who sat on the sofa; she liked him very much, he could tell the most amusing stories, and cut out the prettiest pictures; hearts, and ladies dancing, castles with doors that opened, as well as flowers; he was a delightful student.
2:2	D:N	N:N	"Why do the flowers look so faded to-day?" she asked again, and pointed to her nosegay, which was quite withered.
3:3	N:N	N:N	"Don't you know what is the matter with them?" said the student.
4:4	N:N	N:N	"The flowers were at a ball last night, and therefore, it is no wonder they hang their heads."
5:5	N:N	N:N	"But flowers cannot dance?" cried little Ida.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"Yes indeed, they can," replied the student.
7:7	N:H	N:H	"When it grows dark, and everybody is asleep, they jump about quite merrily.
8:8	N:N	N:H	They have a ball almost every night."
9:9	N:N	N:N	"Can children go to these balls?"
10:10	N:N	N:N	"Yes," said the student, "little daisies and lilies of the valley."
11:11	N:N	N:N	"Where do the beautiful flowers dance?" asked little Ida.
12:12	N:N	N:N	"Have you not often seen the large castle outside the gates of the town, where the king lives in summer, and where the beautiful garden is full of flowers?
13:13	N:N	N:N	And have you not fed the swans with bread when they swam towards you?
14:14	N:N	N:N	Well, the flowers have capital balls there, believe me."
15:15	N:N	N:N	"I was in the garden out there yesterday with my mother," said Ida, "but all the leaves were off the trees, and there was not a single flower left.
16:16	N:N	N:N	Where are they?
17:17	N:N	N:N	I used to see so many in the summer."
18:18	N:N	N:N	"They are in the castle," replied the student.
19:19	H:H	H:H	"You must know that as soon as the king and all the court are gone into the town, the flowers run out of the garden into the castle, and you should see how merry they are.
20:20	N:N	N:H	The two most beautiful roses seat themselves on the throne, and are called the king and queen, then all the red cockscombs range themselves on each side, and bow, these are the lords-in-waiting.
21:21	N:N	N:H	After that the pretty flowers come in, and there is a grand ball.
22:22	N:N	N:H	The blue violets represent little naval cadets, and dance with hyacinths and crocuses which they call young ladies.
23:23	N:N	N:H	The tulips and tiger-lilies are the old ladies who sit and watch the dancing, so that everything may be conducted with order and propriety."
24:24	N:N	N:N	"But," said little Ida, "is there no one there to hurt the flowers for dancing in the king's castle?"
25:25	N:N	N:N	"No one knows anything about it," said the student.
26:26	N:N	N:N	"The old steward of the castle, who has to watch there at night, sometimes comes in; but he carries a great bunch of keys, and as soon as the flowers hear the keys rattle, they run and hide themselves behind the long curtains, and stand quite still, just peeping their heads out.
27:27	D:N	N:N	Then the old steward says, 'I smell flowers here,' but he cannot see them."
28:28	H:N	H:H	"Oh how capital," said little Ida, clapping her hands.
29:29	N:N	H:N	"Should I be able to see these flowers?"
30:30	N:N	N:N	"Yes," said the student, "mind you think of it the next time you go out, no doubt you will see them, if you peep through the window.
31:31	N:N	N:N	I did so to-day, and I saw a long yellow lily lying stretched out on the sofa.
32:32	N:N	N:N	She was a court lady."
33:33	N:N	N:N	"Can the flowers from the Botanical Gardens go to these balls?" asked Ida.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"It is such a distance!"
35:35	N:N	N:N	"Oh yes," said the student 'whenever they like, for they can fly.
36:36	N:N	N:N	Have you not seen those beautiful red, white. and yellow butterflies, that look like flowers?
37:37	N:N	N:N	They were flowers once.
38:38	N:N	N:N	They have flown off their stalks into the air, and flap their leaves as if they were little wings to make them fly.
39:39	N:N	N:N	Then, if they behave well, they obtain permission to fly about during the day, instead of being obliged to sit still on their stems at home, and so in time their leaves become real wings.
40:40	N:N	N:H	It may be, however, that the flowers in the Botanical Gardens have never been to the king's palace, and, therefore, they know nothing of the merry doings at night, which take place there.
41:41	N:Su+	N:+	I will tell you what to do, and the botanical professor, who lives close by here, will be so surprised.
42:42	N:N	N:N	You know him very well, do you not?
43:43	N:N	N:N	Well, next time you go into his garden, you must tell one of the flowers that there is going to be a grand ball at the castle, then that flower will tell all the others, and they will fly away to the castle as soon as possible.
44:44	N:N	N:N	And when the professor walks into his garden, there will not be a single flower left.
45:45	H:N	H:N	How he will wonder what has become of them!"
46:46	N:N	N:N	"But how can one flower tell another?
47:47	N:N	N:N	Flowers cannot speak?"
48:48	N:N	N:N	"No, certainly not," replied the student; "but they can make signs.
49:49	N:N	N:N	Have you not often seen that when the wind blows they nod at one another, and rustle all their green leaves?"
50:50	N:N	N:N	"Can the professor understand the signs?" asked Ida.
51:51	N:N	N:N	"Yes, to be sure he can.
52:52	N:N	N:N	He went one morning into his garden, and saw a stinging nettle making signs with its leaves to a beautiful red carnation.
53:53	H:H	H:H	It was saying, 'You are so pretty, I like you very much.'
54:54	A:A	N:A	But the professor did not approve of such nonsense, so he clapped his hands on the nettle to stop it.
55:55	A:N	A:S	Then the leaves, which are its fingers, stung him so sharply that he has never ventured to touch a nettle since."
56:56	H:H	H:H	"Oh how funny!" said Ida, and she laughed.
57:57	D:N	D:D	"How can anyone put such notions into a child's head?" said a tiresome lawyer, who had come to pay a visit, and sat on the sofa.
58:58	D:D	D:D	He did not like the student, and would grumble when he saw him cutting out droll or amusing pictures.
59:59	N:N	N:D	Sometimes it would be a man hanging on a gibbet and holding a heart in his hand as if he had been stealing hearts.
60:60	N:N	N:D	Sometimes it was an old witch riding through the air on a broom and carrying her husband on her nose.
61:61	D:D	D:D	But the lawyer did not like such jokes, and he would say as he had just said, "How can anyone put such nonsense into a child's head! what absurd fancies there are!"
62:62	H:N	N:H	But to little Ida, all these stories which the student told her about the flowers, seemed very droll, and she thought over them a great deal.
63:63	N:N	N:N	The flowers did hang their heads, because they had been dancing all night, and were very tired, and most likely they were ill.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Then she took them into the room where a number of toys lay on a pretty little table, and the whole of the table drawer besides was full of beautiful things.
65:65	N:N	N:N	Her doll Sophy lay in the doll's bed asleep, and little Ida said to her, "You must really get up Sophy, and be content to lie in the drawer to-night; the poor flowers are ill, and they must lie in your bed, then perhaps they will get well again."
66:66	A:A	A:A	So she took the doll out, who looked quite cross, and said not a single word, for she was angry at being turned out of her bed.
67:67	N:N	N:N	Ida placed the flowers in the doll's bed, and drew the quilt over them.
68:68	N:N	N:N	Then she told them to lie quite still and be good, while she made some tea for them, so that they might be quite well and able to get up the next morning.
69:69	N:N	N:N	And she drew the curtains close round the little bed, so that the sun might not shine in their eyes.
70:70	N:N	N:N	During the whole evening she could not help thinking of what the student had told her.
71:71	N:N	N:N	And before she went to bed herself, she was obliged to peep behind the curtains into the garden where all her mother's beautiful flowers grew, hyacinths and tulips, and many others.
72:72	H:N	H:N	Then she whispered to them quite softly, "I know you are going to a ball to-night."
73:73	H:N	H:H	But the flowers appeared as if they did not understand, and not a leaf moved; still Ida felt quite sure she knew all about it.
74:74	H:N	H:H	She lay awake a long time after she was in bed, thinking how pretty it must be to see all the beautiful flowers dancing in the king's garden.
75:75	N:N	H:H	"I wonder if my flowers have really been there," she said to herself, and then she fell asleep.
76:76	N:N	N:N	In the night she awoke; she had been dreaming of the flowers and of the student, as well as of the tiresome lawyer who found fault with him.
77:77	N:N	N:N	It was quite still in Ida's bedroom; the night-lamp burnt on the table, and her father and mother were asleep.
78:78	N:N	N:N	"I wonder if my flowers are still lying in Sophy's bed," she thought to herself; "how much I should like to know."
79:79	H:N	H:N	She raised herself a little, and glanced at the door of the room where all her flowers and playthings lay; it was partly open, and as she listened, it seemed as if some one in the room was playing the piano, but softly and more prettily than she had ever before heard it.
80:80	H:F	H:F	"Now all the flowers are certainly dancing in there," she thought, "oh how much I should like to see them," but she did not dare move for fear of disturbing her father and mother.
81:81	N:N	H:H	"If they would only come in here," she thought; but they did not come, and the music continued to play so beautifully, and was so pretty, that she could resist no longer.
82:82	N:N	N:N	She crept out of her little bed, went softly to the door and looked into the room.
83:83	H:N	H:+	Oh what a splendid sight there was to be sure!
84:84	N:N	N:H	There was no night-lamp burning, but the room appeared quite light, for the moon shone through the window upon the floor, and made it almost like day.
85:85	N:N	N:H	All the hyacinths and tulips stood in two long rows down the room, not a single flower remained in the window, and the flower-pots were all empty.
86:86	H:N	H:H	The flowers were dancing gracefully on the floor, making turns and holding each other by their long green leaves as they swung round.
87:87	N:N	H:H	At the piano sat a large yellow lily which little Ida was sure she had seen in the summer, for she remembered the student saying she was very much like Miss Lina, one of Ida's friends.
88:88	N:N	H:H	They all laughed at him then, but now it seemed to little Ida as if the tall, yellow flower was really like the young lady.
89:89	N:N	N:H	She had just the same manners while playing, bending her long yellow face from side to side, and nodding in time to the beautiful music.
90:90	H:N	H:H	Then she saw a large purple crocus jump into the middle of the table where the playthings stood, go up to the doll's bedstead and draw back the curtains; there lay the sick flowers, but they got up directly, and nodded to the others as a sign that they wished to dance with them.
91:91	N:N	N:H	The old rough doll, with the broken mouth, stood up and bowed to the pretty flowers.
92:92	H:H	H:H	They did not look ill at all now, but jumped about and were very merry, yet none of them noticed little Ida.
93:93	N:N	N:N	Presently it seemed as if something fell from the table.
94:94	N:N	N:N	Ida looked that way, and saw a slight carnival rod jumping down among the flowers as if it belonged to them; it was, however, very smooth and neat, and a little wax doll with a broad brimmed hat on her head, like the one worn by the lawyer, sat upon it.
95:95	H:N	H:N	The carnival rod hopped about among the flowers on its three red stilted feet, and stamped quite loud when it danced the Mazurka; the flowers could not perform this dance, they were too light to stamp in that manner.
96:96	D:A	D:A	All at once the wax doll which rode on the carnival rod seemed to grow larger and taller, and it turned round and said to the paper flowers, "How can you put such things in a child's head? they are all foolish fancies;" and then the doll was exactly like the lawyer with the broad brimmed hat, and looked as yellow and as cross as he did; but the paper dolls struck him on his thin legs, and he shrunk up again and became quite a little wax doll.
97:97	H:H	H:H	This was very amusing, and Ida could not help laughing.
98:98	N:N	N:H	The carnival rod went on dancing, and the lawyer was obliged to dance also.
99:99	N:N	N:H	It was no use, he might make himself great and tall, or remain a little wax doll with a large black hat; still he must dance.
100:100	N:N	N:N	Then at last the other flowers interceded for him, especially those who had lain in the doll's bed, and the carnival rod gave up his dancing.
101:101	N:N	N:N	At the same moment a loud knocking was heard in the drawer, where Ida's doll Sophy lay with many other toys.
102:102	N:N	N:N	Then the rough doll ran to the end of the table, laid himself flat down upon it, and began to pull the drawer out a little way.
103:103	Su+:Su+	+:+	Then Sophy raised himself, and looked round quite astonished, "There must be a ball here to-night," said Sophy.
104:104	A:N	N:+	"Why did not somebody tell me?"
105:105	H:N	H:N	"Will you dance with me?" said the rough doll.
106:106	D:N	D:N	"You are the right sort to dance with, certainly," said she, turning her back upon him.
107:107	N:N	N:N	Then she seated herself on the edge of the drawer, and thought that perhaps one of the flowers would ask her to dance; but none of them came.
108:108	N:N	N:N	Then she coughed, "Hem, hem, a-hem;" but for all that not one came.
109:109	N:N	N:N	The shabby doll now danced quite alone, and not very badly, after all.
110:110	N:N	N:N	As none of the flowers seemed to notice Sophy, she let herself down from the drawer to the floor, so as to make a very great noise.
111:111	Su-:N	-:F	All the flowers came round her directly, and asked if she had hurt herself, especially those who had lain in her bed.
112:112	H:N	H:H	But she was not hurt at all, and Ida's flowers thanked her for the use of the nice bed, and were very kind to her.
113:113	N:N	H:H	They led her into the middle of the room, where the moon shone, and danced with her, while all the other flowers formed a circle round them.
114:114	H:H	H:H	Then Sophy was very happy, and said they might keep her bed; she did not mind lying in the drawer at all.
115:115	H:N	H:N	But the flowers thanked her very much, and said,- "We cannot live long.
116:116	Sa:N	N:N	To-morrow morning we shall be quite dead; and you must tell little Ida to bury us in the garden, near to the grave of the canary; then, in the summer we shall wake up and be more beautiful than ever."
117:117	Sa:N	S:S	"No, you must not die," said Sophy, as she kissed the flowers.
118:118	N:N	N:N	Then the door of the room opened, and a number of beautiful flowers danced in.
119:119	N:N	N:N	Ida could not imagine where they could come from, unless they were the flowers from the king's garden.
120:120	N:N	N:H	First came two lovely roses, with little golden crowns on their heads; these were the king and queen.
121:121	N:N	N:H	Beautiful stocks and carnations followed, bowing to every one present.
122:122	N:N	N:H	They had also music with them.
123:123	N:N	N:H	Large poppies and peonies had pea-shells for instruments, and blew into them till they were quite red in the face.
124:124	N:N	N:H	The bunches of blue hyacinths and the little white snowdrops jingled their bell-like flowers, as if they were real bells.
125:125	H:N	H:H	Then came many more flowers: blue violets, purple heart's-ease, daisies, and lilies of the valley, and they all danced together, and kissed each other.
126:126	N:N	H:H	It was very beautiful to behold.
127:127	N:N	N:N	At last the flowers wished each other good-night.
128:128	N:N	N:N	Then little Ida crept back into her bed again, and dreamt of all she had seen.
129:129	N:N	N:N	When she arose the next morning, she went quickly to the little table, to see if the flowers were still there.
130:130	N:N	N:N	She drew aside the curtains of the little bed.
131:131	N:N	N:S	There they all lay, but quite faded; much more so than the day before.
132:132	N:N	N:S	Sophy was lying in the drawer where Ida had placed her; but she looked very sleepy.
133:133	N:N	N:N	"Do you remember what the flowers told you to say to me?" said little Ida.
134:134	N:N	N:S	But Sophy looked quite stupid, and said not a single word.
135:135	D:A	D:A	"You are not kind at all," said Ida; "and yet they all danced with you."
136:136	N:N	N:N	Then she took a little paper box, on which were painted beautiful birds, and laid the dead flowers in it.
137:137	N:N	N:N	"This shall be your pretty coffin," she said; "and by and by, when my cousins come to visit me, they shall help me to bury you out in the garden; so that next summer you may grow up again more beautiful than ever."
138:138	N:N	N:H	Her cousins were two good-tempered boys, whose names were James and Adolphus.
139:139	N:N	N:N	Their father had given them each a bow and arrow, and they had brought them to show Ida.
140:140	N:N	N:N	She told them about the poor flowers which were dead; and as soon as they obtained permission, they went with her to bury them.
141:141	N:N	N:N	The two boys walked first, with their crossbows on their shoulders, and little Ida followed, carrying the pretty box containing the dead flowers.
142:142	N:N	N:N	They dug a little grave in the garden.
143:143	H:N	H:N	Ida kissed her flowers and then laid them, with the box, in the earth.
144:144	N:N	N:N	James and Adolphus then fired their crossbows over the grave, as they had neither guns nor cannons.
0:0	N:N	N:S	IT was terribly cold and nearly dark on the last evening of the old year, and the snow was falling fast.
1:1	Sa:N	S:S	In the cold and the darkness, a poor little girl, with bare head and naked feet, roamed through the streets.
2:2	N:N	S:S	It is true she had on a pair of slippers when she left home, but they were not of much use.
3:3	N:N	S:S	They were very large, so large, indeed, that they had belonged to her mother, and the poor little creature had lost them in running across the street to avoid two carriages that were rolling along at a terrible rate.
4:4	N:N	S:S	One of the slippers she could not find, and a boy seized upon the other and ran away with it, saying that he could use it as a cradle, when he had children of his own.
5:5	N:N	S:S	So the little girl went on with her little naked feet, which were quite red and blue with the cold.
6:6	N:N	N:N	In an old apron she carried a number of matches, and had a bundle of them in her hands.
7:7	Sa:N	S:S	No one had bought anything of her the whole day, nor had any one given here even a penny.
8:8	Sa:Sa	S:S	Shivering with cold and hunger, she crept along; poor little child, she looked the picture of misery.
9:9	N:N	S:S	The snowflakes fell on her long, fair hair, which hung in curls on her shoulders, but she regarded them not.
10:10	N:N	N:S	Lights were shining from every window, and there was a savory smell of roast goose, for it was New-year's eve- yes, she remembered that.
11:11	Sa:N	S:S	In a corner, between two houses, one of which projected beyond the other, she sank down and huddled herself together.
12:12	F:F	S:F	She had drawn her little feet under her, but she could not keep off the cold; and she dared not go home, for she had sold no matches, and could not take home even a penny of money.
13:13	F:N	S:S	Her father would certainly beat her; besides, it was almost as cold at home as here, for they had only the roof to cover them, through which the wind howled, although the largest holes had been stopped up with straw and rags.
14:14	N:N	S:S	Her little hands were almost frozen with the cold.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Ah! perhaps a burning match might be some good, if she could draw it from the bundle and strike it against the wall, just to warm her fingers.
16:16	N:N	N:N	She drew one out-"scratch!" how it sputtered as it burnt!
17:17	N:N	N:H	It gave a warm, bright light, like a little candle, as she held her hand over it.
18:18	H:N	N:H	It was really a wonderful light.
19:19	H:N	N:H	It seemed to the little girl that she was sitting by a large iron stove, with polished brass feet and a brass ornament.
20:20	Su-:N	-:N	How the fire burned! and seemed so beautifully warm that the child stretched out her feet as if to warm them, when, lo! the flame of the match went out, the stove vanished, and she had only the remains of the half-burnt match in her hand.
21:21	N:N	N:N	She rubbed another match on the wall.
22:22	N:N	N:+	It burst into a flame, and where its light fell upon the wall it became as transparent as a veil, and she could see into the room.
23:23	N:N	N:H	The table was covered with a snowy white table-cloth, on which stood a splendid dinner service, and a steaming roast goose, stuffed with apples and dried plums.
24:24	N:N	N:+	And what was still more wonderful, the goose jumped down from the dish and waddled across the floor, with a knife and fork in its breast, to the little girl.
25:25	Sa:N	S:S	Then the match went out, and there remained nothing but the thick, damp, cold wall before her.
26:26	H:N	H:H	She lighted another match, and then she found herself sitting under a beautiful Christmas-tree.
27:27	N:N	H:H	It was larger and more beautifully decorated than the one which she had seen through the glass door at the rich merchant's.
28:28	N:N	H:H	Thousands of tapers were burning upon the green branches, and colored pictures, like those she had seen in the show-windows, looked down upon it all.
29:29	Su-:N	-:N	The little one stretched out her hand towards them, and the match went out.
30:30	N:N	N:N	The Christmas lights rose higher and higher, till they looked to her like the stars in the sky.
31:31	N:N	N:N	Then she saw a star fall, leaving behind it a bright streak of fire.
32:32	Sa:N	N:S	"Some one is dying," thought the little girl, for her old grandmother, the only one who had ever loved her, and who was now dead, had told her that when a star falls, a soul was going up to God.
33:33	H:N	H:H	She again rubbed a match on the wall, and the light shone round her; in the brightness stood her old grandmother, clear and shining, yet mild and loving in her appearance.
34:34	Sa:N	S:N	"Grandmother," cried the little one, "O take me with you; I know you will go away when the match burns out; you will vanish like the warm stove, the roast goose, and the large, glorious Christmas-tree."
35:35	N:N	S:N	And she made haste to light the whole bundle of matches, for she wished to keep her grandmother there.
36:36	H:N	H:H	And the matches glowed with a light that was brighter than the noon-day, and her grandmother had never appeared so large or so beautiful.
37:37	H:H	H:H	She took the little girl in her arms, and they both flew upwards in brightness and joy far above the earth, where there was neither cold nor hunger nor pain, for they were with God.
38:38	Su-:N	-:N	In the dawn of morning there lay the poor little one, with pale cheeks and smiling mouth, leaning against the wall; she had been frozen to death on the last evening of the year; and the New-year's sun rose and shone upon a little corpse!
39:39	N:N	N:N	The child still sat, in the stiffness of death, holding the matches in her hand, one bundle of which was burnt.
40:40	N:N	S:N	"She tried to warm herself," said some.
41:41	N:N	N:N	No one imagined what beautiful things she had seen, nor into what glory she had entered with her grandmother, on New-year's day.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a woman who wished very much to have a little child, but she could not obtain her wish.
1:1	N:N	N:N	At last she went to a fairy, and said, "I should so very much like to have a little child; can you tell me where I can find one?"
2:2	H:N	H:N	"Oh, that can be easily managed," said the fairy.
3:3	N:N	N:N	"Here is a barleycorn of a different kind to those which grow in the farmer's fields, and which the chickens eat; put it into a flower-pot, and see what will happen."
4:4	H:N	H:N	"Thank you," said the woman, and she gave the fairy twelve shillings, which was the price of the barleycorn.
5:5	N:N	N:+	Then she went home and planted it, and immediately there grew up a large handsome flower, something like a tulip in appearance, but with its leaves tightly closed as if it were still a bud.
6:6	H:N	H:+	"It is a beautiful flower," said the woman, and she kissed the red and golden-colored leaves, and while she did so the flower opened, and she could see that it was a real tulip.
7:7	N:N	N:+	Within the flower, upon the green velvet stamens, sat a very delicate and graceful little maiden.
8:8	N:N	N:N	She was scarcely half as long as a thumb, and they gave her the name of "Thumbelina," or Tiny, because she was so small.
9:9	N:N	N:N	A walnut-shell, elegantly polished, served her for a cradle; her bed was formed of blue violet-leaves, with a rose-leaf for a counterpane.
10:10	H:H	H:H	Here she slept at night, but during the day she amused herself on a table, where the woman had placed a plateful of water.
11:11	N:N	N:N	Round this plate were wreaths of flowers with their stems in the water, and upon it floated a large tulip-leaf, which served Tiny for a boat.
12:12	N:N	H:N	Here the little maiden sat and rowed herself from side to side, with two oars made of white horse-hair.
13:13	N:N	H:H	It really was a very pretty sight.
14:14	N:N	H:H	Tiny could, also, sing so softly and sweetly that nothing like her singing had ever before been heard.
15:15	Su-:N	-:F	One night, while she lay in her pretty bed, a large, ugly, wet toad crept through a broken pane of glass in the window, and leaped right upon the table where Tiny lay sleeping under her rose-leaf quilt.
16:16	Su-:N	-:F	"What a pretty little wife this would make for my son, said the toad, and she took up the walnut-shell in which little Tiny lay asleep, and jumped through the window with it into the garden.
17:17	N:N	N:N	In the swampy margin of a broad stream in the garden lived the toad, with her son.
18:18	N:N	N:S	He was uglier even than his mother, and when he saw the pretty little maiden in her elegant bed, he could only cry, "Croak, croak, croak."
19:19	F:N	F:N	"Don't speak so loud, or she will wake," said the toad, "and then she might run away, for she is as light as swan's down.
20:20	N:N	N:N	We will place her on one of the water-lily leaves out in the stream; it will be like an island to her, she is so light and small, and then she cannot escape; and, while she is away, we will make haste and prepare the state-room under the marsh, in which you are to live when you are married."
21:21	N:N	N:N	Far out in the stream grew a number of water-lilies, with broad green leaves, which seemed to float on the top of the water.
22:22	N:N	N:N	The largest of these leaves appeared farther off than the rest, and the old toad swam out to it with the walnut-shell, in which little Tiny lay still asleep.
23:23	Sa:Sa	S:S	The tiny little creature woke very early in the morning, and began to cry bitterly when she found where she was, for she could see nothing but water on every side of the large green leaf, and no way of reaching the land.
24:24	N:N	N:N	Meanwhile the old toad was very busy under the marsh, decking her room with rushes and wild yellow flowers, to make it look pretty for her new daughter-in-law.
25:25	N:N	N:N	Then she swam out with her ugly son to the leaf on which she had placed poor little Tiny.
26:26	N:N	N:N	She wanted to fetch the pretty bed, that she might put it in the bridal chamber to be ready for her.
27:27	H:N	N:N	The old toad bowed low to her in the water, and said, "Here is my son, he will be your husband, and you will live happily in the marsh by the stream."
28:28	Sa:Sa	S:S	"Croak, croak, croak," was all her son could say for himself; so the toad took up the elegant little bed, and swam away with it, leaving Tiny all alone on the green leaf, where she sat and wept.
29:29	Sa:Sa	S:S	She could not bear to think of living with the old toad, and having her ugly son for a husband.
30:30	N:N	N:N	The little fishes, who swam about in the water beneath, had seen the toad, and heard what she said, so they lifted their heads above the water to look at the little maiden.
31:31	Sa:Sa	S:S	As soon as they caught sight of her, they saw she was very pretty, and it made them very sorry to think that she must go and live with the ugly toads.
32:32	Sa:N	S:N	"No, it must never be!" so they assembled together in the water, round the green stalk which held the leaf on which the little maiden stood, and gnawed it away at the root with their teeth.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Then the leaf floated down the stream, carrying Tiny far away out of reach of land.
34:34	N:N	N:N	Tiny sailed past many towns, and the little birds in the bushes saw her, and sang, "What a lovely little creature;" so the leaf swam away with her farther and farther, till it brought her to other lands.
35:35	N:N	N:N	A graceful little white butterfly constantly fluttered round her, and at last alighted on the leaf.
36:36	H:H	H:H	Tiny pleased him, and she was glad of it, for now the toad could not possibly reach her, and the country through which she sailed was beautiful, and the sun shone upon the water, till it glittered like liquid gold.
37:37	N:N	H:N	She took off her girdle and tied one end of it round the butterfly, and the other end of the ribbon she fastened to the leaf, which now glided on much faster than ever, taking little Tiny with it as she stood.
38:38	Su-:N	-:F	Presently a large cockchafer flew by; the moment he caught sight of her, he seized her round her delicate waist with his claws, and flew with her into a tree.
39:39	N:N	-:S	The green leaf floated away on the brook, and the butterfly flew with it, for he was fastened to it, and could not get away.
40:40	F:F	F:F	Oh, how frightened little Tiny felt when the cockchafer flew with her to the tree!
41:41	Sa:Sa	F:S	But especially was she sorry for the beautiful white butterfly which she had fastened to the leaf, for if he could not free himself he would die of hunger.
42:42	N:N	N:N	But the cockchafer did not trouble himself at all about the matter.
43:43	N:N	N:N	He seated himself by her side on a large green leaf, gave her some honey from the flowers to eat, and told her she was very pretty, though not in the least like a cockchafer.
44:44	Su-:N	-:N	After a time, all the cockchafers turned up their feelers, and said, "She has only two legs! how ugly that looks."
45:45	D:N	D:N	"She has no feelers," said another.
46:46	D:N	D:N	"Her waist is quite slim.
47:47	D:N	D:N	Pooh! she is like a human being."
48:48	D:N	D:D	"Oh! she is ugly," said all the lady cockchafers, although Tiny was very pretty.
49:49	D:N	D:D	Then the cockchafer who had run away with her, believed all the others when they said she was ugly, and would have nothing more to say to her, and told her she might go where she liked.
50:50	Sa:Sa	S:S	Then he flew down with her from the tree, and placed her on a daisy, and she wept at the thought that she was so ugly that even the cockchafers would have nothing to say to her.
51:51	N:N	N:N	And all the while she was really the loveliest creature that one could imagine, and as tender and delicate as a beautiful rose-leaf.
52:52	N:Sa	S:S	During the whole summer poor little Tiny lived quite alone in the wide forest.
53:53	N:N	S:N	She wove herself a bed with blades of grass, and hung it up under a broad leaf, to protect herself from the rain.
54:54	N:N	N:N	She sucked the honey from the flowers for food, and drank the dew from their leaves every morning.
55:55	N:N	N:N	So passed away the summer and the autumn, and then came the winter,- the long, cold winter.
56:56	N:N	S:S	All the birds who had sung to her so sweetly were flown away, and the trees and the flowers had withered.
57:57	N:N	S:S	The large clover leaf under the shelter of which she had lived, was now rolled together and shrivelled up, nothing remained but a yellow withered stalk.
58:58	Sa:Sa	S:S	She felt dreadfully cold, for her clothes were torn, and she was herself so frail and delicate, that poor little Tiny was nearly frozen to death.
59:59	N:N	S:S	It began to snow too; and the snow-flakes, as they fell upon her, were like a whole shovelful falling upon one of us, for we are tall, but she was only an inch high.
60:60	Sa:N	S:S	Then she wrapped herself up in a dry leaf, but it cracked in the middle and could not keep her warm, and she shivered with cold.
61:61	N:N	N:S	Near the wood in which she had been living lay a corn-field, but the corn had been cut a long time; nothing remained but the bare dry stubble standing up out of the frozen ground.
62:62	N:N	S:S	It was to her like struggling through a large wood.
63:63	Sa:N	S:S	Oh! how she shivered with the cold.
64:64	N:N	N:N	She came at last to the door of a field-mouse, who had a little den under the corn-stubble.
65:65	H:N	N:N	There dwelt the field-mouse in warmth and comfort, with a whole roomful of corn, a kitchen, and a beautiful dining room.
66:66	Sa:N	S:S	Poor little Tiny stood before the door just like a little beggar-girl, and begged for a small piece of barley-corn, for she had been without a morsel to eat for two days.
67:67	Sa:N	N:H	"You poor little creature," said the field-mouse, who was really a good old field-mouse, "come into my warm room and dine with me."
68:68	H:H	H:H	She was very pleased with Tiny, so she said, "You are quite welcome to stay with me all the winter, if you like; but you must keep my rooms clean and neat, and tell me stories, for I shall like to hear them very much."
69:69	H:H	H:H	And Tiny did all the field-mouse asked her, and found herself very comfortable.
70:70	N:N	H:H	"We shall have a visitor soon," said the field-mouse one day; "my neighbor pays me a visit once a week.
71:71	N:N	N:N	He is better off than I am; he has large rooms, and wears a beautiful black velvet coat.
72:72	N:N	N:N	If you could only have him for a husband, you would be well provided for indeed.
73:73	N:N	N:N	But he is blind, so you must tell him some of your prettiest stories.
74:74	D:N	N:N	But Tiny did not feel at all interested about this neighbor, for he was a mole.
75:75	N:N	N:N	However, he came and paid his visit dressed in his black velvet coat.
76:76	N:N	N:N	"He is very rich and learned, and his house is twenty times larger than mine," said the field-mouse.
77:77	N:N	N:N	He was rich and learned, no doubt, but he always spoke slightingly of the sun and the pretty flowers, because he had never seen them.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Tiny was obliged to sing to him, "Lady-bird, lady-bird, fly away home," and many other pretty songs.
79:79	H:N	H:N	And the mole fell in love with her because she had such a sweet voice; but he said nothing yet, for he was very cautious.
80:80	N:N	N:H	A short time before, the mole had dug a long passage under the earth, which led from the dwelling of the field-mouse to his own, and here she had permission to walk with Tiny whenever she liked.
81:81	N:N	N:N	But he warned them not to be alarmed at the sight of a dead bird which lay in the passage.
82:82	N:N	N:N	It was a perfect bird, with a beak and feathers, and could not have been dead long, and was lying just where the mole had made his passage.
83:83	N:N	N:N	The mole took a piece of phosphorescent wood in his mouth, and it glittered like fire in the dark; then he went before them to light them through the long, dark passage.
84:84	N:N	N:N	When they came to the spot where lay the dead bird, the mole pushed his broad nose through the ceiling, the earth gave way, so that there was a large hole, and the daylight shone into the passage.
85:85	Sa:N	S:S	In the middle of the floor lay a dead swallow, his beautiful wings pulled close to his sides, his feet and his head drawn up under his feathers; the poor bird had evidently died of the cold.
86:86	Sa:Sa	S:S	It made little Tiny very sad to see it, she did so love the little birds; all the summer they had sung and twittered for her so beautifully.
87:87	N:N	S:S	But the mole pushed it aside with his crooked legs, and said, "He will sing no more now.
88:88	N:N	S:S	How miserable it must be to be born a little bird!
89:89	N:N	S:D	I am thankful that none of my children will ever be birds, for they can do nothing but cry, 'Tweet, tweet,' and always die of hunger in the winter."
90:90	N:N	S:D	"Yes, you may well say that, as a clever man!" exclaimed the field-mouse, "What is the use of his twittering, for when winter comes he must either starve or be frozen to death.
91:91	N:N	N:D	Still birds are very high bred."
92:92	N:N	H:S	Tiny said nothing; but when the two others had turned their backs on the bird, she stooped down and stroked aside the soft feathers which covered the head, and kissed the closed eyelids.
93:93	H:H	S:H	"Perhaps this was the one who sang to me so sweetly in the summer," she said; "and how much pleasure it gave me, you dear, pretty bird."
94:94	N:N	N:N	The mole now stopped up the hole through which the daylight shone, and then accompanied the lady home.
95:95	N:N	N:S	But during the night Tiny could not sleep; so she got out of bed and wove a large, beautiful carpet of hay; then she carried it to the dead bird, and spread it over him; with some down from the flowers which she had found in the field-mouse's room.
96:96	N:N	N:S	It was as soft as wool, and she spread some of it on each side of the bird, so that he might lie warmly in the cold earth.
97:97	Sa:N	S:S	"Farewell, you pretty little bird," said she, "farewell; thank you for your delightful singing during the summer, when all the trees were green, and the warm sun shone upon us.
98:98	Su+:Su+	+:+	Then she laid her head on the bird's breast, but she was alarmed immediately, for it seemed as if something inside the bird went "thump, thump."
99:99	Su+:N	+:+	It was the bird's heart; he was not really dead, only benumbed with the cold, and the warmth had restored him to life.
100:100	N:N	N:N	In autumn, all the swallows fly away into warm countries, but if one happens to linger, the cold seizes it, it becomes frozen, and falls down as if dead; it remains where it fell, and the cold snow covers it.
101:101	F:F	F:F	Tiny trembled very much; she was quite frightened, for the bird was large, a great deal larger than herself,- she was only an inch high.
102:102	N:N	N:N	But she took courage, laid the wool more thickly over the poor swallow, and then took a leaf which she had used for her own counterpane, and laid it over the head of the poor bird.
103:103	N:N	N:N	The next morning she again stole out to see him.
104:104	N:N	N:N	He was alive but very weak; he could only open his eyes for a moment to look at Tiny, who stood by holding a piece of decayed wood in her hand, for she had no other lantern.
105:105	H:N	H:H	"Thank you, pretty little maiden," said the sick swallow; "I have been so nicely warmed, that I shall soon regain my strength, and be able to fly about again in the warm sunshine."
106:106	N:N	N:N	"Oh," said she, "it is cold out of doors now; it snows and freezes.
107:107	H:N	H:N	Stay in your warm bed; I will take care of you."
108:108	Sa:N	N:S	Then she brought the swallow some water in a flower-leaf, and after he had drank, he told her that he had wounded one of his wings in a thorn-bush, and could not fly as fast as the others, who were soon far away on their journey to warm countries.
109:109	N:N	N:S	Then at last he had fallen to the earth, and could remember no more, nor how he came to be where she had found him.
110:110	H:H	H:H	The whole winter the swallow remained underground, and Tiny nursed him with care and love.
111:111	N:N	N:N	Neither the mole nor the field-mouse knew anything about it, for they did not like swallows.
112:112	N:N	N:N	Very soon the spring time came, and the sun warmed the earth.
113:113	N:N	N:N	Then the swallow bade farewell to Tiny, and she opened the hole in the ceiling which the mole had made.
114:114	H:N	H:H	The sun shone in upon them so beautifully, that the swallow asked her if she would go with him; she could sit on his back, he said, and he would fly away with her into the green woods.
115:115	Sa:N	N:N	But Tiny knew it would make the field-mouse very grieved if she left her in that manner, so she said, "No, I cannot."
116:116	N:N	N:N	"Farewell, then, farewell, you good, pretty little maiden," said the swallow; and he flew out into the sunshine.
117:117	Sa:Sa	S:S	Tiny looked after him, and the tears rose in her eyes.
118:118	N:N	S:S	She was very fond of the poor swallow.
119:119	Sa:Sa	S:S	"Tweet, tweet," sang the bird, as he flew out into the green woods, and Tiny felt very sad.
120:120	N:N	S:S	She was not allowed to go out into the warm sunshine.
121:121	N:N	N:N	The corn which had been sown in the field over the house of the field-mouse had grown up high into the air, and formed a thick wood to Tiny, who was only an inch in height.
122:122	N:N	N:N	"You are going to be married, Tiny," said the field-mouse.
123:123	N:N	N:N	"My neighbor has asked for you.
124:124	H:N	N:N	What good fortune for a poor child like you.
125:125	N:N	N:N	Now we will prepare your wedding clothes.
126:126	N:N	N:N	They must be both woollen and linen.
127:127	H:N	H:N	Nothing must be wanting when you are the mole's wife."
128:128	N:N	N:N	Tiny had to turn the spindle, and the field-mouse hired four spiders, who were to weave day and night.
129:129	N:N	N:N	Every evening the mole visited her, and was continually speaking of the time when the summer would be over.
130:130	N:N	N:N	Then he would keep his wedding-day with Tiny; but now the heat of the sun was so great that it burned the earth, and made it quite hard, like a stone.
131:131	N:N	N:N	As soon, as the summer was over, the wedding should take place.
132:132	Sa:Sa	S:S	But Tiny was not at all pleased; for she did not like the tiresome mole.
133:133	Sa:N	S:S	Every morning when the sun rose, and every evening when it went down, she would creep out at the door, and as the wind blew aside the ears of corn, so that she could see the blue sky, she thought how beautiful and bright it seemed out there, and wished so much to see her dear swallow again.
134:134	N:N	N:S	But he never returned; for by this time he had flown far away into the lovely green forest.
135:135	N:N	N:N	When autumn arrived, Tiny had her outfit quite ready; and the field-mouse said to her, "In four weeks the wedding must take place."
136:136	Sa:Sa	S:S	Then Tiny wept, and said she would not marry the disagreeable mole.
137:137	D:N	D:N	"Nonsense," replied the field-mouse.
138:138	A:N	D:A	"Now don't be obstinate, or I shall bite you with my white teeth.
139:139	N:N	N:A	He is a very handsome mole; the queen herself does not wear more beautiful velvets and furs.
140:140	N:N	N:A	His kitchen and cellars are quite full.
141:141	D:N	D:A	You ought to be very thankful for such good fortune."
142:142	N:N	N:S	So the wedding-day was fixed, on which the mole was to fetch Tiny away to live with him, deep under the earth, and never again to see the warm sun, because he did not like it.
143:143	Sa:Sa	S:S	The poor child was very unhappy at the thought of saying farewell to the beautiful sun, and as the field-mouse had given her permission to stand at the door, she went to look at it once more.
144:144	Sa:N	S:N	"Farewell bright sun," she cried, stretching out her arm towards it; and then she walked a short distance from the house; for the corn had been cut, and only the dry stubble remained in the fields.
145:145	Sa:N	S:N	"Farewell, farewell," she repeated, twining her arm round a little red flower that grew just by her side.
146:146	N:N	S:N	"Greet the little swallow from me, if you should see him again."
147:147	Su+:N	+:+	"Tweet, tweet," sounded over her head suddenly.
148:148	Su+:N	+:+	She looked up, and there was the swallow himself flying close by.
149:149	H:H	H:H	As soon as he spied Tiny, he was delighted; and then she told him how unwilling she felt to marry the ugly mole, and to live always beneath the earth, and never to see the bright sun any more.
150:150	Sa:Sa	S:S	And as she told him she wept.
151:151	N:N	N:N	"Cold winter is coming," said the swallow, "and I am going to fly away into warmer countries.
152:152	N:N	N:N	Will you go with me?
153:153	N:N	N:N	You can sit on my back, and fasten yourself on with your sash.
154:154	N:N	H:H	Then we can fly away from the ugly mole and his gloomy rooms,- far away, over the mountains, into warmer countries, where the sun shines more brightly- than here; where it is always summer, and the flowers bloom in greater beauty.
155:155	N:N	H:H	Fly now with me, dear little Tiny; you saved my life when I lay frozen in that dark passage."
156:156	H:N	H:H	"Yes, I will go with you," said Tiny; and she seated herself on the bird's back, with her feet on his outstretched wings, and tied her girdle to one of his strongest feathers.
157:157	N:N	H:N	Then the swallow rose in the air, and flew over forest and over sea, high above the highest mountains, covered with eternal snow.
158:158	N:N	H:N	Tiny would have been frozen in the cold air, but she crept under the bird's warm feathers, keeping her little head uncovered, so that she might admire the beautiful lands over which they passed.
159:159	N:N	H:N	At length they reached the warm countries, where the sun shines brightly, and the sky seems so much higher above the earth.
160:160	N:N	H:N	Here, on the hedges, and by the wayside, grew purple, green, and white grapes; lemons and oranges hung from trees in the woods; and the air was fragrant with myrtles and orange blossoms.
161:161	N:N	H:H	Beautiful children ran along the country lanes, playing with large gay butterflies; and as the swallow flew farther and farther, every place appeared still more lovely.
162:162	N:N	H:H	At last they came to a blue lake, and by the side of it, shaded by trees of the deepest green, stood a palace of dazzling white marble, built in the olden times.
163:163	N:N	H:H	Vines clustered round its lofty pillars, and at the top were many swallows' nests, and one of these was the home of the swallow who carried Tiny.
164:164	N:N	N:N	"This is my house," said the swallow; "but it would not do for you to live there- you would not be comfortable.
165:165	H:N	H:H	You must choose for yourself one of those lovely flowers, and I will put you down upon it, and then you shall have everything that you can wish to make you happy."
166:166	H:H	H:H	"That will be delightful," she said, and clapped her little hands for joy.
167:167	N:N	N:N	A large marble pillar lay on the ground, which, in falling, had been broken into three pieces.
168:168	N:N	N:H	Between these pieces grew the most beautiful large white flowers; so the swallow flew down with Tiny, and placed her on one of the broad leaves.
169:169	Su+:Su+	H:+	But how surprised she was to see in the middle of the flower, a tiny little man, as white and transparent as if he had been made of crystal!
170:170	N:N	H:+	He had a gold crown on his head, and delicate wings at his shoulders, and was not much larger than Tiny herself.
171:171	N:N	N:+	He was the angel of the flower; for a tiny man and a tiny woman dwell in every flower; and this was the king of them all.
172:172	H:N	H:H	"Oh, how beautiful he is!" whispered Tiny to the swallow.
173:173	H:H	H:H	The little prince was at first quite frightened at the bird, who was like a giant, compared to such a delicate little creature as himself; but when he saw Tiny, he was delighted, and thought her the prettiest little maiden he had ever seen.
174:174	N:N	H:H	He took the gold crown from his head, and placed it on hers, and asked her name, and if she would be his wife, and queen over all the flowers.
175:175	H:N	H:H	This certainly was a very different sort of husband to the son of a toad, or the mole, with my black velvet and fur; so she said, "Yes," to the handsome prince.
176:176	N:H	H:H	Then all the flowers opened, and out of each came a little lady or a tiny lord, all so pretty it was quite a pleasure to look at them.
177:177	N:N	H:H	Each of them brought Tiny a present; but the best gift was a pair of beautiful wings, which had belonged to a large white fly and they fastened them to Tiny's shoulders, so that she might fly from flower to flower.
178:178	Sa:H	N:H	Then there was much rejoicing, and the little swallow who sat above them, in his nest, was asked to sing a wedding song, which he did as well as he could; but in his heart he felt sad for he was very fond of Tiny, and would have liked never to part from her again.
179:179	N:N	N:N	"You must not be called Tiny any more," said the spirit of the flowers to her.
180:180	N:N	N:N	"It is an ugly name, and you are so very pretty.
181:181	H:N	H:N	We will call you Maia."
182:182	Sa:Sa	N:S	"Farewell, farewell," said the swallow, with a heavy heart as he left the warm countries to fly back into Denmark.
183:183	N:N	N:N	There he had a nest over the window of a house in which dwelt the writer of fairy tales.
184:184	N:N	H:N	The swallow sang, "Tweet, tweet," and from his song came the whole story.
0:0	N:N	N:N	YES, they called him Little Tuk, but it was not his real name; he had called himself so before he could speak plainly, and he meant it for Charles.
1:1	N:N	N:N	It was all very well for those who knew him, but not for strangers.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Little Tuk was left at home to take care of his little sister, Gustava, who was much younger than himself, and he had to learn his lessons at the same time, and the two things could not very well be performed together.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The poor boy sat there with his sister on his lap, and sung to her all the songs he knew, and now and then he looked into his geography lesson that lay open before him.
4:4	N:N	N:N	By the next morning he had to learn by heart all the towns in Zealand, and all that could be described of them.
5:5	N:N	N:N	His mother came home at last, and took little Gustava in her arms.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Then Tuk ran to the window, and read so eagerly that he nearly read his eyes out; for it had become darker and darker every minute, and his mother had no money to buy a light.
7:7	N:N	N:S	"There goes the old washerwoman up the lane," said the mother, as she looked out of the window; "the poor woman can hardly drag herself along, and now she had to drag a pail of water from the well.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Be a good boy, Tuk, and run across and help the old woman, won't you?"
9:9	N:N	N:N	So Tuk ran across quickly, and helped her, but when he came back into the room it was quite dark, and there was not a word said about a light, so he was obliged to go to bed on his little truckle bedstead, and there he lay and thought of his geography lesson, and of Zealand, and of all the master had told him.
10:10	N:N	N:S	He ought really to have read it over again, but he could not for want of light.
11:11	N:N	N:N	So he put the geography book under his pillow, for he had heard that this was a great help towards learning a lesson, but not always to be depended upon.
12:12	Su+:N	N:+	He still lay thinking and thinking, when all at once it seemed as if some one kissed him on his eyes and mouth.
13:13	N:N	N:+	He slept and yet he did not sleep; and it appeared as if the old washerwoman looked at him with kind eyes and said, "It would be a great pity if you did not know your lesson to-morrow morning; you helped me, and now I will help you, and Providence will always keep those who help themselves;" and at the same time the book under Tuk's pillow began to move about.
14:14	N:N	N:N	"Cluck, cluck, cluck," cried a hen as she crept towards him.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"I am a hen from Kjoge," and then she told him how many inhabitants the town contained, and about a battle that had been fought there, which really was not worth speaking of.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"Crack, crack," down fell something.
17:17	N:N	N:N	It was a wooden bird, the parrot which is used as a target as Prastoe.
18:18	N:N	N:N	He said there were as many inhabitants in that town as he had nails in his body.
19:19	N:H	N:H	He was very proud, and said, "Thorwalsden lived close to me, and here I am now, quite comfortable."
20:20	Su+:N	+:+	But now little Tuk was no longer in bed; all in a moment he found himself on horseback.
21:21	N:N	N:+	Gallop, gallop, away he went, seated in front of a richly-attired knight, with a waving plume, who held him on the saddle, and so they rode through the wood by the old town of Wordingburg, which was very large and busy.
22:22	N:N	N:H	The king's castle was surrounded by lofty towers, and radiant light streamed from all the windows.
23:23	H:N	H:H	Within there were songs and dancing; King Waldemar and the young gayly-dressed ladies of the court were dancing together.
24:24	N:N	-:N	Morning dawned, and as the sun rose, the whole city and the king's castle sank suddenly down together.
25:25	Su-:N	-:N	One tower after another fell, till at last only one remained standing on the hill where the castle had formerly been.
26:26	N:N	N:S	The town now appeared small and poor, and the school-boys read in their books, which they carried under their arms, that it contained two thousand inhabitants; but this was a mere boast, for it did not contain so many.
27:27	F:N	N:N	And again little Tuk lay in his bed, scarcely knowing whether he was dreaming or not, for some one stood by him.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"Tuk! little Tuk!" said a voice.
29:29	N:N	N:N	It was a very little person who spoke.
30:30	N:N	N:N	He was dressed as a sailor, and looked small enough to be a middy, but he was not one.
31:31	N:N	N:N	"I bring you many greetings from Corsor.
32:32	N:N	N:H	It is a rising town, full of life.
33:33	N:N	N:H	It has steamships and mail-coaches.
34:34	N:N	N:H	In times past they used to call it ugly, but that is no longer true.
35:35	N:N	N:H	I lie on the sea-shore," said Corsor; "I have high-roads and pleasure-gardens; I have given birth to a poet who was witty and entertaining, which they are not all.
36:36	N:N	N:H	I once wanted to fit out a ship to sail round the world, but I did not accomplish it, though most likely I might have done so.
37:37	H:H	H:H	But I am fragrant with perfume, for close to my gates most lovely roses bloom."
38:38	N:N	N:H	Then before the eyes of little Tuk appeared a confusion of colors, red and green; but it cleared off, and he could distinguish a cliff close to the bay, the slopes of which were quite overgrown with verdure, and on its summit stood a fine old church with pointed towers.
39:39	N:N	N:H	Springs of water flowed out of the cliff in thick waterspouts, so that there was a continual splashing.
40:40	N:N	N:N	Close by sat an old king with a golden crown on his white head.
41:41	N:N	N:N	This was King Hroar of the Springs and near the springs stood the town of Roeskilde, as it is called.
42:42	N:N	N:H	Then all the kings and queens of Denmark went up the ascent to the old church, hand in hand, with golden crowns on their heads, while the organ played and the fountains sent forth jets of water.
43:43	N:N	N:N	Little Tuk saw and heard it all.
44:44	N:N	N:N	"Don't forget the names of these towns," said King Hroar.
45:45	Su-:N	-:N	All at once everything vanished; but where!
46:46	N:N	-:N	It seemed to him like turning over the leaves of a book.
47:47	N:N	N:N	And now there stood before him an old peasant woman, who had come from Soroe where the grass grows in the market-place.
48:48	N:N	N:N	She had a green linen apron thrown over her head and shoulders, and it was quite wet, as if it had been raining heavily.
49:49	Su-:N	-:N	"Yes, that it has," said she, and then, just as she was going to tell him a great many pretty stories from Holberg's comedies, and about Waldemar and Absalom, she suddenly shrunk up together, and wagged her head as if she were a frog about to spring.
50:50	N:N	N:N	"Croak," she cried; "it is always wet, and as quiet as death in Soroe."
51:51	Su-:N	-:N	Then little Tuk saw she was changed into a frog.
52:52	N:N	-:N	"Croak," and again she was an old woman.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"One must dress according to the weather," said she.
54:54	N:N	N:N	"It is wet, and my town is just like a bottle.
55:55	N:N	N:N	By the cork we must go in, and by the cork we must come out again.
56:56	N:N	N:H	In olden times I had beautiful fish, and now I have fresh, rosy-cheeked boys in the bottom of the bottle, and they learn wisdom, Hebrew and Greek."
57:57	N:N	N:N	"Croak."
58:58	N:H	N:H	How it sounded like the cry of the frogs on the moor, or like the creaking of great boots when some one is marching,- always the same tone, so monotonous and wearing, that little Tuk at length fell fast asleep, and then the sound could not annoy him.
59:59	N:N	N:N	But even in this sleep came a dream or something like it.
60:60	N:N	N:N	His little sister Gustava, with her blue eyes, and fair curly hair, had grown up a beautiful maiden all at once, and without having wings she could fly.
61:61	N:N	N:N	And they flew together over Zealand, over green forests and blue lakes.
62:62	N:N	N:N	"Hark, so you hear the cock crow, little Tuk.
63:63	N:N	N:N	'Cock-a-doodle-doo.'
64:64	N:N	N:N	The fowls are flying out of Kjoge.
65:65	N:N	N:N	You shall have a large farm-yard.
66:66	N:N	N:H	You shall never suffer hunger or want.
67:67	N:H	N:H	The bird of good omen shall be yours, and you shall become a rich and happy man; your house shall rise up like King Waldemar's towers, and shall be richly adorned with marble statues, like those at Prastoe.
68:68	H:N	H:H	Understand me well; your name shall travel with fame round the world like the ship that was to sail from Corsor, and at Roeskilde,- Don't forget the names of the towns, as King Hroar said,- you shall speak well and clearly little Tuk, and when at last you lie in your grave you shall sleep peacefully, as-" "As if I lay in Soroe," said little Tuk awaking.
69:69	N:N	N:N	It was bright daylight, and he could not remember his dream, but that was not necessary, for we are not to know what will happen to us in the future.
70:70	N:N	N:N	Then he sprang out of bed quickly, and read over his lesson in the book, and knew it all at once quite correctly.
71:71	H:H	H:H	The old washerwoman put her head in at the door, and nodded to him quite kindly, and said, "Many thanks, you good child, for your help yesterday.
72:72	H:N	H:H	I hope all your beautiful dreams will come true."
73:73	N:N	N:N	Little Tuk did not at all know what he had dreamt, but One above did.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE lived once a great queen, in whose garden were found at all seasons the most splendid flowers, and from every land in the world.
1:1	N:H	N:H	She specially loved roses, and therefore she possessed the most beautiful varieties of this flower, from the wild hedge-rose, with its apple-scented leaves, to the splendid Provence rose.
2:2	N:N	N:N	They grew near the shelter of the walls, wound themselves round columns and window-frames, crept along passages and over the ceilings of the halls.
3:3	N:N	N:N	They were of every fragrance and color.
4:4	N:Sa	S:S	But care and sorrow dwelt within these halls; the queen lay upon a sick bed, and the doctors declared that she must die.
5:5	N:N	S:N	"There is still one thing that could save her," said one of the wisest among them.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"Bring her the loveliest rose in the world; one which exhibits the purest and brightest love, and if it is brought to her before her eyes close, she will not die."
7:7	N:N	N:N	Then from all parts came those who brought roses that bloomed in every garden, but they were not the right sort.
8:8	N:N	N:N	The flower must be one from the garden of love; but which of the roses there showed forth the highest and purest love?
9:9	N:N	N:N	The poets sang of this rose, the loveliest in the world, and each named one which he considered worthy of that title; and intelligence of what was required was sent far and wide to every heart that beat with love; to every class, age, and condition.
10:10	Sa:N	N:N	"No one has yet named the flower," said the wise man.
11:11	Sa:N	S:N	"No one has pointed out the spot where it blooms in all its splendor.
12:12	N:N	N:N	It is not a rose from the coffin of Romeo and Juliet, or from the grave of Walburg, though these roses will live in everlasting song.
13:13	N:N	N:N	It is not one of the roses which sprouted forth from the blood-stained fame of Winkelreid.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The blood which flows from the breast of a hero who dies for his country is sacred, and his memory is sweet, and no rose can be redder than the blood which flows from his veins.
15:15	N:N	N:N	Neither is it the magic flower of Science, to obtain which wondrous flower a man devotes many an hour of his fresh young life in sleepless nights, in a lonely chamber."
16:16	H:H	H:H	"I know where it blooms," said a happy mother, who came with her lovely child to the bedside of the queen.
17:17	H:N	H:H	"I know where the loveliest rose in the world is.
18:18	H:N	H:H	It is seen on the blooming cheeks of my sweet child, when it expresses the pure and holy love of infancy; when refreshed by sleep it opens its eyes, and smiles upon me with childlike affection."
19:19	N:N	N:N	"This is a lovely rose," said the wise man; "but there is one still more lovely."
20:20	N:N	N:N	"Yes, one far more lovely," said one of the women.
21:21	N:N	N:N	"I have seen it, and a loftier and purer rose does not bloom.
22:22	N:N	N:N	But it was white, like the leaves of a blush-rose.
23:23	N:N	N:N	I saw it on the cheeks of the queen.
24:24	N:N	N:N	She had taken off her golden crown, and through the long, dreary night, she carried her sick child in her arms.
25:25	Sa:Sa	S:S	She wept over it, kissed it, and prayed for it as only a mother can pray in that hour of her anguish."
26:26	N:N	N:N	"Holy and wonderful in its might is the white rose of grief, but it is not the one we seek."
27:27	N:N	N:N	"No; the loveliest rose in the world I saw at the Lord's table," said the good old bishop.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"I saw it shine as if an angel's face had appeared.
29:29	N:N	H:N	A young maiden knelt at the altar, and renewed the vows made at her baptism; and there were white roses and red roses on the blushing cheeks of that young girl.
30:30	N:N	H:N	She looked up to heaven with all the purity and love of her young spirit, in all the expression of the highest and purest love."
31:31	H:N	N:N	"May she be blessed!" said the wise man: "but no one has yet named the loveliest rose in the world."
32:32	N:N	N:N	Then there came into the room a child- the queen's little son.
33:33	Sa:Sa	S:S	Tears stood in his eyes, and glistened on his cheeks; he carried a great book and the binding was of velvet, with silver clasps.
34:34	Sa:N	S:N	"Mother," cried the little boy; "only hear what I have read."
35:35	N:N	S:N	And the child seated himself by the bedside, and read from the book of Him who suffered death on the cross to save all men, even who are yet unborn.
36:36	H:N	H:N	He read, "Greater love hath no man than this," and as he read a roseate hue spread over the cheeks of the queen, and her eyes became so enlightened and clear, that she saw from the leaves of the book a lovely rose spring forth, a type of Him who shed His blood on the cross.
37:37	H:N	H:N	"I see it," she said.
38:38	N:N	H:N	"He who beholds this, the loveliest rose on earth, shall never die."
0:0	N:N	N:N	IT was bitterly cold, the sky glittered with stars, and not a breeze stirred.
1:1	N:N	H:H	"Bump"- an old pot was thrown at a neighbor's door; and "bang, bang," went the guns; for they were greeting the New Year.
2:2	N:N	N:H	It was New Year's Eve, and the church clock was striking twelve.
3:3	N:N	H:H	"Tan-ta-ra-ra, tan-ta-ra-ra," sounded the horn, and the mail-coach came lumbering up.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The clumsy vehicle stopped at the gate of the town; all the places had been taken, for there were twelve passengers in the coach.
5:5	H:N	H:H	"Hurrah! hurrah!" cried the people in the town; for in every house the New Year was being welcomed; and as the clock struck, they stood up, the full glasses in their hands, to drink success to the new comer.
6:6	H:N	H:H	"A happy New Year," was the cry; "a pretty wife, plenty of money, and no sorrow or care."
7:7	N:N	N:H	The wish passed round, and the glasses clashed together till they rang again; while before the town-gate the mail coach stopped with the twelve strange passengers.
8:8	N:N	N:N	And who were these strangers?
9:9	N:N	N:N	Each of them had his passport and his luggage with him; they even brought presents for me, and for you, and for all the people in the town.
10:10	N:N	N:N	"Who were they? what did they want? and what did they bring with them?"
11:11	N:N	N:H	"Good-morning," they cried to the sentry at the town-gate.
12:12	N:N	N:H	"Good-morning," replied the sentry; for the clock had struck twelve.
13:13	N:N	N:N	"Your name and profession?" asked the sentry of the one who alighted first from the carriage.
14:14	N:N	N:N	"See for yourself in the passport," he replied.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"I am myself;" and a famous fellow he looked, arrayed in bear-skin and fur boots.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"I am the man on whom many persons fix their hopes.
17:17	N:N	N:N	Come to me to-morrow, and I'll give you a New Year's present.
18:18	N:N	N:H	I throw shillings and pence among the people; I give balls, no less than thirty-one; indeed, that is the highest number I can spare for balls.
19:19	N:N	N:H	My ships are often frozen in, but in my offices it is warm and comfortable.
20:20	N:N	N:N	My name is JANUARY.
21:21	N:N	N:N	I'm a merchant, and I generally bring my accounts with me."
22:22	N:N	N:N	Then the second alighted.
23:23	H:H	H:H	He seemed a merry fellow.
24:24	N:N	H:H	He was a director of a theatre, a manager of masked balls, and a leader of all the amusements we can imagine.
25:25	N:N	N:N	His luggage consisted of a great cask.
26:26	H:N	H:H	"We'll dance the bung out of the cask at carnival time," said he; "I'll prepare a merry tune for you and for myself too.
27:27	Sa:N	N:N	Unfortunately I have not long to live- the shortest time, in fact, of my whole family- only twenty-eight days.
28:28	N:N	N:N	Sometimes they pop me in a day extra; but I trouble myself very little about that.
29:29	H:N	H:H	Hurrah!"
30:30	A:N	S:N	"You must not shout so," said the sentry.
31:31	N:N	N:H	"Certainly I may shout," retorted the man; "I'm Prince Carnival, travelling under the name of FEBRUARY."
32:32	N:N	N:N	The third now got out.
33:33	N:N	N:N	He looked a personification of fasting; but he carried his nose very high, for he was related to the "forty (k)nights," and was a weather prophet.
34:34	N:N	N:N	But that is not a very lucrative office, and therefore he praised fasting.
35:35	N:N	N:N	In his button-hole he carried a little bunch of violets, but they were very small.
36:36	N:N	N:N	"MARCH, March," the fourth called after him, slapping him on the shoulder, "don't you smell something?
37:37	N:N	N:H	Make haste into the guard room; they're drinking punch there; that's your favorite drink.
38:38	N:N	N:H	I can smell it out here already.
39:39	N:N	N:N	Forward, Master March."
40:40	Su+:N	H:H	But it was not true; the speaker only wanted to remind him of his name, and to make an APRIL fool of him; for with that fun the fourth generally began his career.
41:41	H:H	H:H	He looked very jovial, did little work, and had the more holidays.
42:42	N:N	N:H	"If the world were only a little more settled," said he: "but sometimes I'm obliged to be in a good humor, and sometimes a bad one, according to circumstances; now rain, now sunshine.
43:43	N:N	N:N	I'm kind of a house agent, also a manager of funerals.
44:44	N:N	N:N	I can laugh or cry, according to circumstances.
45:45	N:N	N:N	I have my summer wardrobe in this box here, but it would be very foolish to put it on now.
46:46	N:N	N:N	Here I am.
47:47	N:N	N:N	On Sundays I go out walking in shoes and white silk stockings, and a muff."
48:48	N:N	N:N	After him, a lady stepped out of the coach.
49:49	N:N	N:N	She called herself Miss MAY.
50:50	N:N	N:H	She wore a summer dress and overshoes; her dress was a light green, and she wore anemones in her hair.
51:51	N:N	N:H	She was so scented with wild-thyme, that it made the sentry sneeze.
52:52	H:N	H:H	"Your health, and God bless you," was her salutation to him.
53:53	H:H	H:H	How pretty she was! and such a singer! not a theatre singer, nor a ballad singer; no, but a singer of the woods; for she wandered through the gay green forest, and had a concert there for her own amusement.
54:54	N:H	N:H	"Now comes the young lady," said those in the carriage; and out stepped a young dame, delicate, proud, and pretty.
55:55	N:N	N:N	It was Mistress JUNE, in whose service people become lazy and fond of sleeping for hours.
56:56	N:N	N:H	She gives a feast on the longest day of the year, that there may be time for her guests to partake of the numerous dishes at her table.
57:57	N:N	N:N	Indeed, she keeps her own carriage; but still she travelled by the mail, with the rest, because she wished to show that she was not high-minded.
58:58	N:N	N:N	But she was not without a protector; her younger brother, JULY, was with her.
59:59	N:N	N:N	He was a plump young fellow, clad in summer garments and wearing a straw hat.
60:60	N:N	N:N	He had but very little luggage with him, because it was so cumbersome in the great heat; he had, however, swimming-trousers with him, which are nothing to carry.
61:61	N:N	N:N	Then came the mother herself, in crinoline, Madame AUGUST, a wholesale dealer in fruit, proprietress of a large number of fish ponds and a land cultivator.
62:62	N:N	N:N	She was fat and heated, yet she could use her hands well, and would herself carry out beer to the laborers in the field.
63:63	N:N	N:N	"In the sweat of the face shalt thou eat bread," said she; "it is written in the Bible."
64:64	H:N	H:H	After work, came the recreations, dancing and playing in the greenwood, and the "harvest homes."
65:65	N:N	H:N	She was a thorough housewife.
66:66	N:N	N:H	After her a man came out of the coach, who is a painter; he is the great master of colors, and is named SEPTEMBER.
67:67	N:N	H:H	The forest, on his arrival, had to change its colors when he wished it; and how beautiful are the colors he chooses!
68:68	N:N	H:N	The woods glow with hues of red and gold and brown.
69:69	N:N	H:N	This great master painter could whistle like a blackbird.
70:70	N:N	N:N	He was quick in his work, and soon entwined the tendrils of the hop plant around his beer jug.
71:71	N:H	H:H	This was an ornament to the jug, and he has a great love for ornament.
72:72	N:N	N:N	There he stood with his color pot in his hand, and that was the whole of his luggage.
73:73	N:H	N:H	A land-owner followed, who in the month for sowing seed attended to the ploughing and was fond of field sports.
74:74	N:N	N:N	Squire OCTOBER brought his dog and his gun with him, and had nuts in his game bag.
75:75	N:N	N:N	"Crack, crack."
76:76	N:N	N:N	He had a great deal of luggage, even an English plough.
77:77	N:N	N:N	He spoke of farming, but what he said could scarcely be heard for the coughing and gasping of his neighbor.
78:78	N:Sa	N:S	It was NOVEMBER, who coughed violently as he got out.
79:79	N:N	N:S	He had a cold, which caused him to use his pocket-handkerchief continually; and yet he said he was obliged to accompany servant girls to their new places, and initiate them into their winter service.
80:80	N:N	N:S	He said he thought his cold would never leave him when he went out woodcutting, for he was a master sawyer, and had to supply wood to the whole parish.
81:81	N:N	N:N	He spent his evenings preparing wooden soles for skates, for he knew, he said, that in a few weeks these shoes would be wanted for the amusement of skating.
82:82	N:N	N:N	At length the last passenger made her appearance,- old Mother DECEMBER, with her fire-stool.
83:83	H:N	H:N	The dame was very old, but her eyes glistened like two stars.
84:84	N:N	N:N	She carried on her arm a flower-pot, in which a little fir-tree was growing.
85:85	H:N	H:H	"This tree I shall guard and cherish," she said, "that it may grow large by Christmas Eve, and reach from the ground to the ceiling, to be covered and adorned with flaming candles, golden apples, and little figures.
86:86	N:N	H:H	The fire-stool will be as warm as a stove, and I shall then bring a story book out of my pocket, and read aloud till all the children in the room are quite quiet.
87:87	N:N	H:H	Then the little figures on the tree will become lively, and the little waxen angel at the top spread out his wings of gold-leaf, and fly down from his green perch.
88:88	N:N	H:H	He will kiss every one in the room, great and small; yes, even the poor children who stand in the passage, or out in the street singing a carol about the 'Star of Bethlehem.'"
89:89	H:N	H:N	"Well, now the coach may drive away," said the sentry; "we have the whole twelve.
90:90	N:N	N:N	Let the horses be put up."
91:91	N:N	N:N	"First, let all the twelve come to me," said the captain on duty, "one after another.
92:92	N:N	N:N	The passports I will keep here.
93:93	N:N	N:N	Each of them is available for one month; when that has passed, I shall write the behavior of each on his passport.
94:94	N:N	N:N	Mr. JANUARY, have the goodness to come here."
95:95	N:N	N:N	And Mr. January stepped forward.
96:96	N:N	H:N	When a year has passed, I think I shall be able to tell you what the twelve passengers have brought to you, to me, and to all of us.
97:97	N:N	N:N	Now I do not know, and probably even they don't know themselves, for we live in strange times.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the city of Florence, not far from the Piazza del Granduca, runs a little street called Porta Rosa.
1:1	N:N	N:N	In this street, just in front of the market-place where vegetables are sold, stands a pig, made of brass and curiously formed.
2:2	N:N	N:N	The bright color has been changed by age to dark green; but clear, fresh water pours from the snout, which shines as if it had been polished, and so indeed it has, for hundreds of poor people and children seize it in their hands as they place their mouths close to the mouth of the animal, to drink.
3:3	Su+:N	+:N	It is quite a picture to see a half-naked boy clasping the well-formed creature by the head, as he presses his rosy lips against its jaws.
4:4	N:N	N:N	Every one who visits Florence can very quickly find the place; he has only to ask the first beggar he meets for the Metal Pig, and he will be told where it is.
5:5	N:N	N:S	It was late on a winter evening; the mountains were covered with snow, but the moon shone brightly, and moonlight in Italy is like a dull winter's day in the north; indeed it is better, for clear air seems to raise us above the earth, while in the north a cold, gray, leaden sky appears to press us down to earth, even as the cold damp earth shall one day press on us in the grave.
6:6	Sa:Sa	N:S	In the garden of the grand duke's palace, under the roof of one of the wings, where a thousand roses bloom in winter, a little ragged boy had been sitting the whole day long; a boy, who might serve as a type of Italy, lovely and smiling, and yet still suffering.
7:7	Sa:Sa	S:S	He was hungry and thirsty, yet no one gave him anything; and when it became dark, and they were about to close the gardens, the porter turned him out.
8:8	N:N	N:N	He stood a long time musing on the bridge which crosses the Arno, and looking at the glittering stars, reflected in the water which flowed between him and the elegant marble bridge Della Trinita.
9:9	N:N	N:N	He then walked away towards the Metal Pig, half knelt down, clasped it with his arms, and then put his mouth to the shining snout and drank deep draughts of the fresh water.
10:10	N:N	N:N	Close by, lay a few salad-leaves and two chestnuts, which were to serve for his supper.
11:11	N:N	N:N	No one was in the street but himself; it belonged only to him, so he boldly seated himself on the pig's back, leaned forward so that his curly head could rest on the head of the animal, and, before he was aware, he fell asleep.
12:12	N:N	N:N	It was midnight.
13:13	Su+:N	+:+	The Metal Pig raised himself gently, and the boy heard him say quite distinctly, "Hold tight, little boy, for I am going to run;" and away he started for a most wonderful ride.
14:14	N:N	+:N	First, they arrived at the Piazza del Granduca, and the metal horse which bears the duke's statue, neighed aloud.
15:15	N:N	H:N	The painted coats-of-arms on the old council-house shone like transparent pictures, and Michael Angelo's David tossed his sling; it was as if everything had life.
16:16	N:F	+:F	The metallic groups of figures, among which were Perseus and the Rape of the Sabines, looked like living persons, and cries of terror sounded from them all across the noble square.
17:17	N:N	N:N	By the Palazzo degli Uffizi, in the arcade, where the nobility assemble for the carnival, the Metal Pig stopped.
18:18	N:N	N:N	"Hold fast," said the animal; "hold fast, for I am going up stairs."
19:19	H:H	H:H	The little boy said not a word; he was half pleased and half afraid.
20:20	N:N	N:N	They entered a long gallery, where the boy had been before.
21:21	N:N	N:N	The walls were resplendent with paintings; here stood statues and busts, all in a clear light as if it were day.
22:22	H:N	H:H	But the grandest appeared when the door of a side room opened; the little boy could remember what beautiful things he had seen there, but to-night everything shone in its brightest colors.
23:23	N:N	H:H	Here stood the figure of a beautiful woman, as beautifully sculptured as possible by one of the great masters.
24:24	N:N	H:H	Her graceful limbs appeared to move; dolphins sprang at her feet, and immortality shone from her eyes.
25:25	N:N	N:H	The world called her the Venus de' Medici.
26:26	N:N	N:N	By her side were statues, in which the spirit of life breathed in stone; figures of men, one of whom whetted his sword, and was named the Grinder; wrestling gladiators formed another group, the sword had been sharpened for them, and they strove for the goddess of beauty.
27:27	Su+:H	+:H	The boy was dazzled by so much glitter; for the walls were gleaming with bright colors, all appeared living reality.
28:28	H:N	H:H	As they passed from hall to hall, beauty everywhere showed itself; and as the Metal Pig went step by step from one picture to the other, the little boy could see it all plainly.
29:29	H:H	H:H	One glory eclipsed another; yet there was one picture that fixed itself on the little boy's memory, more especially because of the happy children it represented, for these the little boy had seen in daylight.
30:30	N:N	N:N	Many pass this picture by with indifference, and yet it contains a treasure of poetic feeling; it represents Christ descending into Hades.
31:31	N:N	N:N	They are not the lost whom the spectator sees, but the heathen of olden times.
32:32	H:N	H:H	The Florentine, Angiolo Bronzino, painted this picture; most beautiful is the expression on the face of the two children, who appear to have full confidence that they shall reach heaven at last.
33:33	H:N	H:H	They are embracing each other, and one little one stretches out his hand towards another who stands below him, and points to himself, as if he were saying, "I am going to heaven."
34:34	N:H	N:H	The older people stand as if uncertain, yet hopeful, and they bow in humble adoration to the Lord Jesus.
35:35	N:N	N:N	On this picture the boy's eyes rested longer than on any other: the Metal Pig stood still before it.
36:36	N:N	N:S	A low sigh was heard.
37:37	N:N	N:N	Did it come from the picture or from the animal?
38:38	H:H	H:H	The boy raised his hands towards the smiling children, and then the Pig ran off with him through the open vestibule.
39:39	H:N	H:H	"Thank you, thank you, you beautiful animal," said the little boy, caressing the Metal Pig as it ran down the steps.
40:40	H:N	H:H	"Thanks to yourself also," replied the Metal Pig; "I have helped you and you have helped me, for it is only when I have an innocent child on my back that I receive the power to run.
41:41	Sa:N	S:H	Yes; as you see, I can even venture under the rays of the lamp, in front of the picture of the Madonna, but I may not enter the church; still from without, and while you are upon my back, I may look in through the open door.
42:42	F:N	N:N	Do not get down yet, for if you do, then I shall be lifeless, as you have seen me in the Porta Rosa."
43:43	H:N	H:H	"I will stay with you, my dear creature," said the little boy.
44:44	N:N	N:N	So then they went on at a rapid pace through the streets of Florence, till they came to the square before the church of Santa Croce.
45:45	N:N	N:N	The folding-doors flew open, and light streamed from the altar through the church into the deserted square.
46:46	N:N	N:H	A wonderful blaze of light streamed from one of the monuments in the left-side aisle, and a thousand moving stars seemed to form a glory round it; even the coat-of-arms on the tomb-stone shone, and a red ladder on a blue field gleamed like fire.
47:47	N:N	N:N	It was the grave of Galileo.
48:48	N:N	N:N	The monument is unadorned, but the red ladder is an emblem of art, signifying that the way to glory leads up a shining ladder, on which the prophets of mind rise to heaven, like Elias of old.
49:49	N:N	N:N	In the right aisle of the church every statue on the richly carved sarcophagi seemed endowed with life.
50:50	N:N	N:N	Here stood Michael Angelo; there Dante, with the laurel wreath round his brow; Alfieri and Machiavelli; for here side by side rest the great men- the pride of Italy.
51:51	N:N	N:N	The church itself is very beautiful, even more beautiful than the marble cathedral at Florence, though not so large.
52:52	N:N	N:H	It seemed as if the carved vestments stirred, and as if the marble figures they covered raised their heads higher, to gaze upon the brightly colored glowing altar where the white-robed boys swung the golden censers, amid music and song, while the strong fragrance of incense filled the church, and streamed forth into the square.
53:53	Su+:N	+:H	The boy stretched forth his hands towards the light, and at the same moment the Metal Pig started again so rapidly that he was obliged to cling tightly to him.
54:54	Su-:N	-:-	The wind whistled in his ears, he heard the church door creak on its hinges as it closed, and it seemed to him as if he had lost his senses- then a cold shudder passed over him, and he awoke.
55:55	N:N	-:N	It was morning; the Metal Pig stood in its old place on the Porta Rosa, and the boy found he had slipped nearly off its back.
56:56	F:F	F:F	Fear and trembling came upon him as he thought of his mother; she had sent him out the day before to get some money, he had not done so, and now he was hungry and thirsty.
57:57	Sa:N	S:H	Once more he clasped the neck of his metal horse, kissed its nose, and nodded farewell to it.
58:58	N:N	N:N	Then he wandered away into one of the narrowest streets, where there was scarcely room for a loaded donkey to pass.
59:59	N:N	N:N	A great iron-bound door stood ajar; he passed through, and climbed up a brick staircase, with dirty walls and a rope for a balustrade, till he came to an open gallery hung with rags.
60:60	N:N	N:N	From here a flight of steps led down to a court, where from a well water was drawn up by iron rollers to the different stories of the house, and where the water-buckets hung side by side.
61:61	N:N	N:N	Sometimes the roller and the bucket danced in the air, splashing the water all over the court.
62:62	N:Su-	N:-	Another broken-down staircase led from the gallery, and two Russian sailors running down it almost upset the poor boy.
63:63	N:N	N:N	They were coming from their nightly carousal.
64:64	N:N	N:N	A woman not very young, with an unpleasant face and a quantity of black hair, followed them.
65:65	N:N	N:N	"What have you brought home?" she asked. when she saw the boy.
66:66	F:N	F:F	"Don't be angry," he pleaded; "I received nothing, I have nothing at all;" and he seized his mother's dress and would have kissed it.
67:67	N:N	N:F	Then they went into a little room.
68:68	N:N	N:N	I need not describe it, but only say that there stood in it an earthen pot with handles, made for holding fire, which in Italy is called a marito.
69:69	Su-:N	-:N	This pot she took in her lap, warmed her fingers, and pushed the boy with her elbow.
70:70	A:N	A:A	"Certainly you must have some money," she said.
71:71	Sa:Sa	F:S	The boy began to cry, and then she struck him with her foot till he cried out louder.
72:72	A:F	A:F	"Will you be quiet? or I'll break your screaming head;" and she swung about the fire-pot which she held in her hand, while the boy crouched to the earth and screamed.
73:73	N:N	N:F	Then a neighbor came in, and she had also a marito under her arm.
74:74	D:N	-:-	"Felicita," she said, "what are you doing to the child?"
75:75	A:N	A:A	"The child is mine," she answered; "I can murder him if I like, and you too, Giannina."
76:76	A:N	A:A	And then she swung about the fire-pot.
77:77	N:N	A:A	The other woman lifted up hers to defend herself, and the two pots clashed together so violently that they were dashed to pieces, and fire and ashes flew about the room.
78:78	F:N	F:F	The boy rushed out at the sight, sped across the courtyard, and fled from the house.
79:79	N:N	N:N	The poor child ran till he was quite out of breath; at last he stopped at the church, the doors of which were opened to him the night before, and went in.
80:80	Sa:Sa	S:S	Here everything was bright, and the boy knelt down by the first tomb on his right, the grave of Michael Angelo, and sobbed as if his heart would break.
81:81	N:N	N:N	People came and went, mass was performed, but no one noticed the boy, excepting an elderly citizen, who stood still and looked at him for a moment, and then went away like the rest.
82:82	Sa:Sa	S:S	Hunger and thirst overpowered the child, and he became quite faint and ill.
83:83	N:N	N:S	At last he crept into a corner behind the marble monuments, and went to sleep.
84:84	N:N	N:N	Towards evening he was awakened by a pull at his sleeve; he started up, and the same old citizen stood before him.
85:85	N:N	N:N	"Are you ill? where do you live? have you been here all day?" were some of the questions asked by the old man.
86:86	N:N	N:N	After hearing his answers, the old man took him home to a small house close by, in a back street.
87:87	N:N	N:N	They entered a glovemaker's shop, where a woman sat sewing busily.
88:88	N:H	N:H	A little white poodle, so closely shaven that his pink skin could plainly be seen, frisked about the room, and gambolled upon the boy.
89:89	H:N	H:H	"Innocent souls are soon intimate," said the woman, as she caressed both the boy and the dog.
90:90	H:N	H:H	These good people gave the child food and drink, and said he should stay with them all night, and that the next day the old man, who was called Giuseppe, would go and speak to his mother.
91:91	H:H	H:H	A little homely bed was prepared for him, but to him who had so often slept on the hard stones it was a royal couch, and he slept sweetly and dreamed of the splendid pictures and of the Metal Pig.
92:92	F:Sa	F:S	Giuseppe went out the next morning, and the poor child was not glad to see him go, for he knew that the old man was gone to his mother, and that, perhaps, he would have to go back.
93:93	Sa:Sa	S:S	He wept at the thought, and then he played with the little, lively dog, and kissed it, while the old woman looked kindly at him to encourage him.
94:94	N:N	N:N	And what news did Giuseppe bring back?
95:95	N:N	N:N	At first the boy could not hear, for he talked a great deal to his wife, and she nodded and stroked the boy's cheek.
96:96	H:N	H:H	Then she said, "He is a good lad, he shall stay with us, he may become a clever glovemaker, like you.
97:97	N:N	H:H	Look what delicate fingers he has got; Madonna intended him for a glovemaker."
98:98	H:H	H:H	So the boy stayed with them, and the woman herself taught him to sew; and he ate well, and slept well, and became very merry.
99:99	N:N	N:N	But at last he began to tease Bellissima, as the little dog was called.
100:100	A:Sa	A:S	This made the woman angry, and she scolded him and threatened him, which made him very unhappy, and he went and sat in his own room full of sad thoughts.
101:101	N:N	N:N	This chamber looked upon the street, in which hung skins to dry, and there were thick iron bars across his window.
102:102	N:N	N:N	That night he lay awake, thinking of the Metal Pig; indeed, it was always in his thoughts.
103:103	Su+:N	+:+	Suddenly he fancied he heard feet outside going pit-a-pat.
104:104	N:N	+:+	He sprung out of bed and went to the window.
105:105	N:N	+:N	Could it be the Metal Pig?
106:106	Sa:N	N:N	But there was nothing to be seen; whatever he had heard had passed already.
107:107	N:N	N:N	Next morning, their neighbor, the artist, passed by, carrying a paint-box and a large roll of canvas.
108:108	N:N	N:N	"Help the gentleman to carry his box of colors," said the woman to the boy; and he obeyed instantly, took the box, and followed the painter.
109:109	N:N	N:N	They walked on till they reached the picture gallery, and mounted the same staircase up which he had ridden that night on the Metal Pig.
110:110	N:N	N:N	He remembered all the statues and pictures, the beautiful marble Venus, and again he looked at the Madonna with the Saviour and St. John.
111:111	H:H	H:H	They stopped before the picture by Bronzino, in which Christ is represented as standing in the lower world, with the children smiling before Him, in the sweet expectation of entering heaven; and the poor boy smiled, too, for here was his heaven.
112:112	N:N	N:N	"You may go home now," said the painter, while the boy stood watching him, till he had set up his easel.
113:113	N:N	N:N	"May I see you paint?" asked the boy; "may I see you put the picture on this white canvas?"
114:114	N:N	N:N	"I am not going to paint yet," replied the artist; then he brought out a piece of chalk.
115:115	N:N	N:N	His hand moved quickly, and his eye measured the great picture; and though nothing appeared but a faint line, the figure of the Saviour was as clearly visible as in the colored picture.
116:116	A:N	N:N	"Why don't you go?" said the painter.
117:117	N:N	N:N	Then the boy wandered home silently, and seated himself on the table, and learned to sew gloves.
118:118	N:N	N:N	But all day long his thoughts were in the picture gallery; and so he pricked his fingers and was awkward.
119:119	N:N	N:N	But he did not tease Bellissima.
120:120	N:N	N:N	When evening came, and the house door stood open, he slipped out.
121:121	N:N	N:H	It was a bright, beautiful, starlight evening, but rather cold.
122:122	N:N	N:H	Away he went through the already-deserted streets, and soon came to the Metal Pig; he stooped down and kissed its shining nose, and then seated himself on its back.
123:123	H:N	H:H	"You happy creature," he said; "how I have longed for you! we must take a ride to-night."
124:124	Su-:N	-:N	But the Metal Pig lay motionless, while the fresh stream gushed forth from its mouth.
125:125	N:N	N:N	The little boy still sat astride on its back, when he felt something pulling at his clothes.
126:126	Su-:N	-:N	He looked down, and there was Bellissima, little smooth-shaven Bellissima, barking as if she would have said, "Here I am too; why are you sitting there?"
127:127	F:F	F:F	A fiery dragon could not have frightened the little boy so much as did the little dog in this place.
128:128	Su-:N	-:F	"Bellissima in the street, and not dressed!" as the old lady called it; "what would be the end of this?"
129:129	N:N	N:N	The dog never went out in winter, unless she was attired in a little lambskin coat which had been made for her; it was fastened round the little dog's neck and body with red ribbons, and was decorated with rosettes and little bells.
130:130	N:N	N:N	The dog looked almost like a little kid when she was allowed to go out in winter, and trot after her mistress.
131:131	N:N	N:N	And now here she was in the cold, and not dressed.
132:132	N:N	N:N	Oh, how would it end?
133:133	N:N	N:N	All his fancies were quickly put to flight; yet he kissed the Metal Pig once more, and then took Bellissima in his arms.
134:134	N:Sa	N:S	The poor little thing trembled so with cold, that the boy ran homeward as fast as he could.
135:135	N:N	N:N	"What are you running away with there?" asked two of the police whom he met, and at whom the dog barked.
136:136	Su-:N	-:N	"Where have you stolen that pretty dog?" they asked; and they took it away from him.
137:137	A:Sa	F:S	"Oh, I have not stolen it; do give it to me back again," cried the boy, despairingly.
138:138	N:N	N:N	"If you have not stolen it, you may say at home that they can send to the watch-house for the dog."
139:139	N:N	N:N	Then they told him where the watch-house was, and went away with Bellissima.
140:140	N:N	F:S	Here was a dreadful trouble.
141:141	F:N	F:S	The boy did not know whether he had better jump into the Arno, or go home and confess everything.
142:142	F:N	F:S	They would certainly kill him, he thought.
143:143	N:N	F:S	"Well, I would gladly be killed," he reasoned; "for then I shall die, and go to heaven:" and so he went home, almost hoping for death.
144:144	N:N	N:S	The door was locked, and he could not reach the knocker.
145:145	N:N	N:N	No one was in the street; so he took up a stone, and with it made a tremendous noise at the door.
146:146	N:N	N:N	"Who is there?" asked somebody from within.
147:147	N:N	N:N	"It is I," said he.
148:148	N:N	F:N	"Bellissima is gone.
149:149	N:N	F:N	Open the door, and then kill me."
150:150	N:N	F:F	Then indeed there was a great panic.
151:151	N:N	N:F	Madame was so very fond of Bellissima.
152:152	N:N	F:N	She immediately looked at the wall where the dog's dress usually hung; and there was the little lambskin.
153:153	F:N	F:F	"Bellissima in the watch-house!" she cried.
154:154	A:N	A:A	"You bad boy! how did you entice her out?
155:155	F:N	F:A	Poor little delicate thing, with those rough policemen! and she'll be frozen with cold."
156:156	Sa:Sa	S:S	Giuseppe went off at once, while his wife lamented, and the boy wept.
157:157	N:N	N:N	Several of the neighbors came in, and amongst them the painter.
158:158	N:N	N:N	He took the boy between his knees, and questioned him; and, in broken sentences, he soon heard the whole story, and also about the Metal Pig, and the wonderful ride to the picture-gallery, which was certainly rather incomprehensible.
159:159	N:A	N:A	The painter, however, consoled the little fellow, and tried to soften the lady's anger; but she would not be pacified till her husband returned with Bellissima, who had been with the police.
160:160	H:H	H:H	Then there was great rejoicing, and the painter caressed the boy, and gave him a number of pictures.
161:161	H:N	H:H	Oh, what beautiful pictures these were!- figures with funny heads; and, above all, the Metal Pig was there too.
162:162	H:N	H:H	Oh, nothing could be more delightful.
163:163	N:N	H:H	By means of a few strokes, it was made to appear on the paper; and even the house that stood behind it had been sketched in.
164:164	N:N	N:H	Oh, if he could only draw and paint!
165:165	N:N	N:H	He who could do this could conjure all the world before him.
166:166	H:N	H:H	The first leisure moment during the next day, the boy got a pencil, and on the back of one of the other drawings he attempted to copy the drawing of the Metal Pig, and he succeeded.
167:167	H:H	H:H	Certainly it was rather crooked, rather up and down, one leg thick, and another thin; still it was like the copy, and he was overjoyed at what he had done.
168:168	N:N	N:N	The pencil would not go quite as it ought,- he had found that out; but the next day he tried again.
169:169	H:N	H:N	A second pig was drawn by the side of the first, and this looked a hundred times better; and the third attempt was so good, that everybody might know what it was meant to represent.
170:170	N:N	N:N	And now the glovemaking went on but slowly.
171:171	N:N	N:N	The orders given by the shops in the town were not finished quickly; for the Metal Pig had taught the boy that all objects may be drawn upon paper; and Florence is a picture-book in itself for any one who chooses to turn over its pages.
172:172	N:N	N:N	On the Piazza dell Trinita stands a slender pillar, and upon it is the goddess of Justice, blindfolded, with her scales in her hand.
173:173	N:N	N:N	She was soon represented on paper, and it was the glovemaker's boy who placed her there.
174:174	H:N	H:N	His collection of pictures increased; but as yet they were only copies of lifeless objects, when one day Bellissima came gambolling before him: "Stand still," cried he, "and I will draw you beautifully, to put amongst my collection."
175:175	N:N	N:N	But Bellissima would not stand still, so she must be bound fast in one position.
176:176	A:N	N:F	He tied her head and tail; but she barked and jumped, and so pulled and tightened the string, that she was nearly strangled; and just then her mistress walked in.
177:177	A:N	A:A	"You wicked boy! the poor little creature!" was all she could utter.
178:178	A:N	A:A	She pushed the boy from her, thrust him away with her foot, called him a most ungrateful, good-for-nothing, wicked boy, and forbade him to enter the house again.
179:179	A:Sa	A:S	Then she wept, and kissed her little half-strangled Bellissima.
180:180	N:N	N:N	At this moment the painter entered the room.
181:181	N:N	N:N	* * * * * * *
182:182	N:N	N:N	In the year 1834 there was an exhibition in the Academy of Arts at Florence.
183:183	N:N	N:N	Two pictures, placed side by side, attracted a large number of spectators.
184:184	N:N	N:N	The smaller of the two represented a little boy sitting at a table, drawing; before him was a little white poodle, curiously shaven; but as the animal would not stand still, it had been fastened with a string to its head and tail, to keep it in one position.
185:185	N:N	N:H	The truthfulness and life in this picture interested every one.
186:186	N:N	N:N	The painter was said to be a young Florentine, who had been found in the streets, when a child, by an old glovemaker, who had brought him up.
187:187	N:N	N:N	The boy had taught himself to draw: it was also said that a young artist, now famous, had discovered talent in the child just as he was about to be sent away for having tied up madame's favorite little dog, and using it as a model.
188:188	N:N	N:N	The glovemaker's boy had also become a great painter, as the picture proved; but the larger picture by its side was a still greater proof of his talent.
189:189	N:N	N:N	It represented a handsome boy, clothed in rags, lying asleep, and leaning against the Metal Pig in the street of the Porta Rosa.
190:190	N:N	N:N	All the spectators knew the spot well.
191:191	N:N	N:N	The child's arms were round the neck of the Pig, and he was in a deep sleep.
192:192	N:N	N:N	The lamp before the picture of the Madonna threw a strong, effective light on the pale, delicate face of the child.
193:193	N:N	H:N	It was a beautiful picture.
194:194	Sa:N	S:S	A large gilt frame surrounded it, and on one corner of the frame a laurel wreath had been hung; but a black band, twined unseen among the green leaves, and a streamer of crape, hung down from it; for within the last few days the young artist had- died.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN a nursery where a number of toys lay scattered about, a money-box stood on the top of a very high wardrobe.
1:1	N:N	N:N	It was made of clay in the shape of a pig, and had been bought of the potter.
2:2	N:N	N:N	In the back of the pig was a slit, and this slit had been enlarged with a knife, so that dollars, or crown pieces, might slip through; and, indeed there were two in the box, besides a number of pence.
3:3	N:N	N:N	The money-pig was stuffed so full that it could no longer rattle, which is the highest state of perfection to which a money-pig can attain.
4:4	N:N	N:N	There he stood upon the cupboard, high and lofty, looking down upon everything else in the room.
5:5	H:H	H:H	He knew very well that he had enough inside him to buy up all the other toys, and this gave him a very good opinion of his own value.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The rest thought of this fact also, although they did not express it, for there were so many other things to talk about.
7:7	N:N	N:N	A large doll, still handsome, though rather old, for her neck had been mended, lay inside one of the drawers which was partly open.
8:8	N:N	N:N	She called out to the others, "Let us have a game at being men and women, that is something worth playing at."
9:9	H:N	H:H	Upon this there was a great uproar; even the engravings, which hung in frames on the wall, turned round in their excitement, and showed that they had a wrong side to them, although they had not the least intention to expose themselves in this way, or to object to the game.
10:10	N:N	N:N	It was late at night, but as the moon shone through the windows, they had light at a cheap rate.
11:11	H:N	H:H	And as the game was now to begin, all were invited to take part in it, even the children's wagon, which certainly belonged to the coarser playthings.
12:12	N:N	N:H	"Each has its own value," said the wagon; "we cannot all be noblemen; there must be some to do the work."
13:13	N:N	N:N	The money-pig was the only one who received a written invitation.
14:14	F:N	N:N	He stood so high that they were afraid he would not accept a verbal message.
15:15	N:N	N:N	But in his reply, he said, if he had to take a part, he must enjoy the sport from his own home; they were to arrange for him to do so; and so they did.
16:16	N:N	N:N	The little toy theatre was therefore put up in such a way that the money-pig could look directly into it.
17:17	N:N	H:H	Some wanted to begin with a comedy, and afterwards to have a tea party and a discussion for mental improvement, but they commenced with the latter first.
18:18	N:N	H:N	The rocking-horse spoke of training and races; the wagon of railways and steam power, for these subjects belonged to each of their professions, and it was right they should talk of them.
19:19	N:N	H:N	The clock talked politics- "tick, tick;" he professed to know what was the time of day, but there was a whisper that he did not go correctly.
20:20	N:N	H:N	The bamboo cane stood by, looking stiff and proud: he was vain of his brass ferrule and silver top, and on the sofa lay two worked cushions, pretty but stupid.
21:21	H:F	H:H	When the play at the little theatre began, the rest sat and looked on; they were requested to applaud and stamp, or crack, when they felt gratified with what they saw.
22:22	N:N	N:N	But the riding-whip said he never cracked for old people, only for the young who were not yet married.
23:23	H:N	H:N	"I crack for everybody," said the cracker.
24:24	H:N	H:N	"Yes, and a fine noise you make," thought the audience, as the play went on.
25:25	N:N	N:H	It was not worth much, but it was very well played, and all the characters turned their painted sides to the audience, for they were made only to be seen on one side.
26:26	N:N	H:H	The acting was wonderful, excepting that sometimes they came out beyond the lamps, because the wires were a little too long.
27:27	H:H	H:H	The doll, whose neck had been darned, was so excited that the place in her neck burst, and the money-pig declared he must do something for one of the players, as they had all pleased him so much.
28:28	N:N	H:N	So he made up his mind to remember one of them in his will, as the one to be buried with him in the family vault, whenever that event should happen.
29:29	H:N	H:H	They all enjoyed the comedy so much, that they gave up all thoughts of the tea party, and only carried out their idea of intellectual amusement, which they called playing at men and women; and there was nothing wrong about it, for it was only play.
30:30	N:N	N:N	All the while, each one thought most of himself, or of what the money-pig could be thinking.
31:31	N:N	N:N	His thoughts were on, as he supposed, a very distant time- of making his will, and of his burial, and of when it might all come to pass.
32:32	Su-:N	-:-	Certainly sooner than he expected- for all at once down he came from the top of the press, fell on the ground, and was broken to pieces.
33:33	N:N	N:-	Then the pennies hopped and danced about in the most amusing manner.
34:34	N:N	N:N	The little ones twirled round like tops, and the large ones rolled away as far as they could, especially the one great silver crown piece who had often to go out into the world, and now he had his wish as well as all the rest of the money.
35:35	N:N	N:S	The pieces of the money-pig were thrown into the dust-bin, and the next day there stood a new money-pig on the cupboard, but it had not a farthing in its inside yet, and therefore, like the old one, it could not rattle.
36:36	N:N	N:N	This was the beginning with him, and we will make it the end of our story.
0:0	N:N	N:N	ONE would have thought that something important was going on in the duck-pond, but it was nothing after all.
1:1	N:N	N:N	All the ducks lying quietly on the water or standing on their heads in it- for they could do that- at once swarm to the sides; the traces of their feet were seen in the wet earth, and their cackling was heard far and wide.
2:2	N:N	N:N	The water, which a few moments before had been as clear and smooth as a mirror, became very troubled.
3:3	N:N	N:N	Before, every tree, every neighbouring bush, the old farmhouse with the holes in the roof and the swallows' nest, and especially the great rose-bush full of flowers, had been reflected in it.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The rose-bush covered the wall and hung out over the water, in which everything was seen as if in a picture, except that it all stood on its head; but when the water was troubled everything got mixed up, and the picture was gone.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Two feathers which the fluttering ducks had lost floated up and down; suddenly they took a rush as if the wind were coming, but as it did not come they had to lie still, and the water once more became quiet and smooth.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The roses were again reflected; they were very beautiful, but they did not know it, for no one had told them.
7:7	H:H	H:H	The sun shone among the delicate leaves; everything breathed forth the loveliest fragrance, and all felt as we do when we are filled with joy at the thought of our happiness.
8:8	H:N	H:H	"How beautiful existence is!" said each rose.
9:9	N:N	H:H	"The only thing that I wish for is to be able to kiss the sun, because it is so warm and bright.
10:10	N:N	H:H	I should also like to kiss those roses down in the water, which are so much like us, and the pretty little birds down in the nest.
11:11	N:N	N:H	There are some up above too; they put out their heads and pipe softly; they have no feathers like their father and mother.
12:12	H:N	H:H	We have good neighbours, both below and above.
13:13	H:N	H:H	How beautiful existence is!"
14:14	N:N	N:N	The young ones above and below- those below were really only shadows in the water- were sparrows; their parents were sparrows too, and had taken possession of the empty swallows' nest of last year, and now lived in it as if it were their own property.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"Are those the duck's children swimming here?" asked the young sparrows when they saw the feathers on the water.
16:16	D:N	D:A	"If you must ask questions, ask sensible ones," said their mother.
17:17	D:N	D:A	"Don't you see that they are feathers, such as I wear and you will wear too?
18:18	N:N	N:N	But ours are finer.
19:19	N:N	N:N	Still, I should like to have them up in the nest, for they keep one warm.
20:20	N:Su-	N:-	I am very curious to know what the ducks were so startled about; not about us, certainly, although I did say 'peep' to you pretty loudly.
21:21	D:N	D:N	The thick-headed roses ought to know why, but they know nothing at all; they only look at themselves and smell.
22:22	D:D	D:D	I am heartily tired of such neighbours."
23:23	N:N	N:N	"Listen to the dear little birds up there," said the roses; "they begin to want to sing too, but are not able to manage it yet.
24:24	N:N	N:N	But it will soon come.
25:25	H:N	H:H	What a pleasure that must be!
26:26	H:N	H:H	It is fine to have such cheerful neighbours."
27:27	N:N	N:N	Suddenly two horses came galloping up to be watered.
28:28	N:N	N:N	A peasant boy rode on one, and he had taken off all his clothes except his large broad black hat.
29:29	N:N	N:N	The boy whistled like a bird, and rode into the pond where it was deepest, and as he passed the rose-bush he plucked a rose and stuck it in his hat.
30:30	N:N	N:N	Now he looked dressed, and rode on.
31:31	Su-:N	-:N	The other roses looked after their sister, and asked each other, "Where can she be going to?"
32:32	N:N	N:N	But none of them knew.
33:33	N:N	N:H	"I should like to go out into the world for once," said one; "but here at home among our green leaves it is beautiful too.
34:34	H:N	H:H	The whole day long the sun shines bright and warm, and in the night the sky shines more beautifully still; we can see that through all the little holes in it."
35:35	N:N	N:N	They meant the stars, but they knew no better.
36:36	H:H	H:H	"We make it lively about the house," said the sparrow-mother; "and people say that a swallows' nest brings luck; so they are glad of us.
37:37	D:N	D:N	But such neighbours as ours!
38:38	N:N	S:D	A rose-bush on the wall like that causes damp.
39:39	N:N	N:N	I daresay it will be taken away; then we shall, perhaps, have some corn growing here.
40:40	D:N	D:D	The roses are good for nothing but to be looked at and to be smelt, or at most to be stuck in a hat.
41:41	N:N	D:D	Every year, as I have been told by my mother, they fall off.
42:42	N:N	N:N	The farmer's wife preserves them and strews salt among them; then they get a French name which I neither can pronounce nor care to, and are put into the fire to make a nice smell.
43:43	D:N	D:D	You see, that's their life; they exist only for the eye and the nose.
44:44	N:N	N:N	Now you know."
45:45	N:N	N:H	In the evening, when the gnats were playing about in the warm air and in the red clouds, the nightingale came and sang to the roses that the beautiful was like sunshine to the world, and that the beautiful lived for ever.
46:46	N:N	N:H	The roses thought that the nightingale was singing about itself, and that one might easily have believed; they had no idea that the song was about them.
47:47	H:H	H:H	But they were very pleased with it, and wondered whether all the little sparrows could become nightingales.
48:48	N:N	N:N	"I understand the song of that bird very well," said the young sparrows.
49:49	N:N	N:N	"There was only one word that was not clear to me.
50:50	N:N	N:N	What does 'the beautiful' mean?"
51:51	D:N	D:D	"Nothing at all," answered their mother; "that's only something external.
52:52	N:N	N:N	Up at the Hall, where the pigeons have their own house, and corn and peas are strewn before them every day- I have dined with them myself, and that you shall do in time, too; for tell me what company you keep and I'll tell you who you are- up at the Hall they have two birds with green necks and a crest upon their heads; they can spread out their tails like a great wheel, and these are so bright with various colours that it makes one's eyes ache.
53:53	N:N	N:N	These birds are called peacocks, and that is 'the beautiful.'
54:54	D:N	D:N	If they were only plucked a little they would look no better than the rest of us.
55:55	D:N	D:D	I would have plucked them already if they had not been so big."
56:56	N:N	N:N	"I'll pluck them," piped the young sparrow, who had no feathers yet.
57:57	N:H	H:H	In the farmhouse lived a young married couple; they loved each other dearly, were industrious and active, and everything in their home looked very nice.
58:58	N:N	H:H	On Sundays the young wife came down early, plucked a handful of the most beautiful roses, and put them into a glass of water, which she placed upon the cupboard.
59:59	H:N	H:H	"Now I see that it is Sunday," said the husband, kissing his little wife.
60:60	H:N	H:H	They sat down, read their hymn-book, and held each other by the hand, while the sun shone down upon the fresh roses and upon them.
61:61	D:N	D:D	"This sight is really too tedious," said the sparrow-mother, who could see into the room from her nest; and she flew away.
62:62	N:N	N:H	The same thing happened on the following Sunday, for every Sunday fresh roses were put into the glass; but the rose-bush bloomed as beautifully as ever.
63:63	N:N	N:N	The young sparrows now had feathers, and wanted very much to fly with their mother; but she would not allow it, and so they had to stay at home.
64:64	Su-:N	-:-	In one of her flights, however it may have happened, she was caught, before she was aware of it, in a horse-hair net which some boys had attached to a tree.
65:65	F:F	F:F	The horse-hair was drawn tightly round her leg- as tightly as if the latter were to be cut off; she was in great pain and terror.
66:66	N:N	N:F	The boys came running up and seized her, and in no gentle way either.
67:67	D:Sa	D:S	"It's only a sparrow," they said; they did not, however, let her go, but took her home with them, and every time she cried they hit her on the beak.
68:68	N:N	N:N	In the farmhouse was an old man who understood making soap into cakes and balls, both for shaving and washing.
69:69	H:H	H:H	He was a merry old man, always wandering about.
70:70	N:N	N:N	On seeing the sparrow which the boys had brought, and which they said they did not want, he asked, "Shall we make it look very pretty?"
71:71	F:F	F:F	At these words an icy shudder ran through the sparrow-mother.
72:72	N:N	N:N	Out of his box, in which were the most beautiful colours, the old man took a quantity of shining leaf-gold, while the boys had to go and fetch some white of egg, with which the sparrow was to be smeared all over; the gold was stuck on to this, and the sparrow-mother was now gilded all over.
73:73	F:F	F:F	But she, trembling in every limb, did not think of the adornment.
74:74	N:N	N:N	Then the soap-man tore off a small piece from the red lining of his old jacket, and cutting it so as to make it look like a cock's comb, he stuck it to the bird's head.
75:75	F:F	F:F	"Now you will see the gold-jacket fly," said the old man, letting the sparrow go, which flew away in deadly fear, with the sun shining upon her.
76:76	Su+:N	+:N	How she glittered!
77:77	Su+:Su+	+:+	All the sparrows, and even a crow- and an old boy he was too- were startled at the sight; but still they flew after her to learn what kind of strange bird she was.
78:78	F:F	F:F	Driven by fear and horror, she flew homeward; she was almost sinking fainting to the earth, while the flock of pursuing birds increased, some even attempting to peck at her.
79:79	Su+:N	+:-	"Look at her!
80:80	Su+:N	+:-	Look at her!" they all cried.
81:81	Su+:N	+:-	"Look at her!
82:82	Su+:N	+:-	Look at her" cried her little ones. as she approached the nest.
83:83	Su+:N	+:-	"That is certainly a young peacock, for it glitters in all colours; it makes one's eyes ache, as mother told us.
84:84	Su+:N	+:N	Peep! that's 'the beautiful'."
85:85	N:Sa	N:S	And then they pecked at the bird with their little beaks so that it was impossible for her to get into the nest; she was so exhausted that she couldn't even say "Peep!" much less "I am your own mother!"
86:86	N:N	N:S	The other birds, too, now fell upon the sparrow and plucked off feather after feather until she fell bleeding into the rose-bush.
87:87	Sa:N	S:S	"Poor creature!" said all the roses; "only be still, and we will hide you.
88:88	N:N	N:S	Lean your little head against us.
89:89	Su-:N	-:S	The sparrow spread out her wings once more, then drew them closely to her, and lay dead near the neighbouring family, the beautiful fresh roses.
90:90	N:N	N:S	"Peep!" sounded from the nest.
91:91	N:N	N:S	"Where can mother be so long?
92:92	N:N	N:S	It's more than I can understand.
93:93	N:N	N:S	It cannot be a trick of hers, and mean that we are now to take care of ourselves.
94:94	N:N	N:S	She has left us the house as an inheritance; but to which of us is it to belong when we have families of our own?"
95:95	N:N	N:S	"Yes, it won't do for you to stay with me when I increase my household with a wife and children,"' said the smallest.
96:96	N:N	N:N	"I daresay I shall have more wives and children than you," said the second.
97:97	A:N	N:N	"But I am the eldest!" exclaimed the third.
98:98	A:A	A:A	Then they all got excited; they hit out with their wings, pecked with their beaks, and flop! one after another was thrown out of the nest.
99:99	A:A	A:A	There they lay with their anger, holding their heads on one side and blinking the eye that was turned upwards.
100:100	N:N	N:N	That was their way of looking foolish.
101:101	N:N	N:N	They could fly a little; by practice they learned to improve, and at last they agreed upon a sign by which to recognise each other if they should meet in the world later on.
102:102	N:N	N:N	It was to be one "Peep!" and three scratches on the ground with the left foot.
103:103	N:N	N:N	The young one who had remained behind in the nest made himself as broad as he could, for he was the proprietor.
104:104	N:N	N:N	But this greatness did not last long.
105:105	Su-:N	-:S	In the night the red flames burst through the window and seized the roof, the dry straw blazed up high, and the whole house, together with the young sparrow, was burned.
106:106	N:N	N:S	The two others, who wanted to marry, thus saved their lives by a stroke of luck.
107:107	N:N	N:S	When the sun rose again and everything looked as refreshed as if it had had a quiet sleep, there only remained of the farmhouse a few black charred beams leaning against the chimney, which was now its own master.
108:108	N:N	N:N	Thick smoke still rose from the ruins, but the rose-bush stood yonder, fresh, blooming, and untouched, every flower and every twig being reflected in the clear water.
109:109	N:N	N:N	"How beautifully the roses bloom before the ruined house," exclaimed a passer-by.
110:110	H:N	H:H	"A pleasanter picture cannot be imagined.
111:111	N:N	N:H	I must have that."
112:112	N:N	N:H	And the man took out of his portfolio a little book with white leaves: he was a painter, and with his pencil he drew the smoking house, the charred beams and the overhanging chimney, which bent more and more; in the foreground he put the large, blooming rose-bush, which presented a charming view.
113:113	N:N	N:H	For its sake alone the whole picture had been drawn.
114:114	N:N	N:N	Later in the day the two sparrows who had been born there came by.
115:115	Su-:N	-:N	"Where is the house?" they asked.
116:116	Su-:N	-:N	"Where is the nest?
117:117	N:N	N:N	Peep!
118:118	Su-:N	-:S	All is burned and our strong brother too.
119:119	N:N	N:N	That's what he has now for keeping the nest.
120:120	N:N	N:N	The roses got off very well; there they still stand with their red cheeks.
121:121	N:N	N:N	They certainly do not mourn at their neighbours' misfortunes.
122:122	D:N	D:S	I don't want to talk to them, and it looks miserable here- that's my opinion."
123:123	N:N	N:N	And away they went.
124:124	N:N	N:H	On a beautiful sunny autumn day- one could almost have believed it was still the middle of summer- there hopped about in the dry clean-swept courtyard before the principal entrance of the Hall a number of black, white, and gaily-coloured pigeons, all shining in the sunlight.
125:125	N:N	N:N	The pigeon-mothers said to their young ones: "Stand in groups, stand in groups! for that looks much better."
126:126	N:N	N:N	"What kind of creatures are those little grey ones that run about behind us?" asked an old pigeon, with red and green in her eyes.
127:127	N:N	N:N	"Little grey ones!
128:128	N:N	N:N	Little grey ones!" she cried.
129:129	H:N	H:H	"They are sparrows, and good creatures.
130:130	N:N	N:H	We have always had the reputation of being pious, so we will allow them to pick up the corn with us; they don't interrupt our talk, and they scrape so prettily when they bow."
131:131	N:N	N:N	Indeed they were continually making three foot-scrapings with the left foot and also said "Peep!"
132:132	N:N	N:N	By this means they recognised each other, for they were the sparrows from the nest on the burned house.
133:133	H:N	H:H	"Here is excellent fare!" said the sparrow.
134:134	N:N	N:N	The pigeons strutted round one another, puffed out their chests mightily, and had their own private views and opinions.
135:135	D:N	D:N	"Do you see that pouter pigeon?" said one to the other.
136:136	N:N	D:N	"Do you see how she swallows the peas?
137:137	D:N	D:A	She eats too many, and the best ones too.
138:138	N:N	N:N	Curoo!
139:139	N:N	N:N	Curoo!
140:140	D:N	D:D	How she lifts her crest, the ugly, spiteful creature!
141:141	N:N	N:N	Curoo!
142:142	N:N	N:N	Curoo!"
143:143	D:A	D:A	And the eyes of all sparkled with malice.
144:144	N:N	N:N	"Stand in groups!
145:145	N:N	N:N	Stand in groups!
146:146	N:N	N:N	Little grey ones, little grey ones!
147:147	N:N	N:N	Curoo, curoo, curoo!"
148:148	N:N	N:N	So their chatter ran on, and so it will run on for thousands of years.
149:149	N:Sa	N:S	The sparrows ate lustily; they listened attentively, and even stood in the ranks with the others, but it did not suit them at all.
150:150	N:H	N:H	They were full, and so they left the pigeons, exchanging opinions about them, slipped in under the garden palings, and when they found the door leading into the house open, one of them, who was more than full, and therefore felt brave, hopped on to the threshold.
151:151	N:N	N:N	"Peep!" said he; "I may venture that."
152:152	N:N	N:N	"Peep!" said the other; "so may I, and something more too!" and he hopped into the room.
153:153	N:N	N:N	No one was there; the third sparrow, seeing this, flew still farther into the room, exclaiming, "All or nothing!
154:154	N:N	N:N	It is a curious man's nest all the same; and what have they put up here?
155:155	N:N	N:N	What is it?"
156:156	N:N	N:N	Close to the sparrows the roses were blooming; they were reflected in the water, and the charred beams leaned against the overhanging chimney.
157:157	N:N	N:N	"Do tell me what this is.
158:158	N:N	N:N	How comes this in a room at the Hall?"
159:159	N:N	N:N	And all three sparrows wanted to fly over the roses and the chimney, but flew against a flat wall.
160:160	N:N	N:N	It was all a picture, a great splendid picture, which the artist had painted from a sketch.
161:161	Su-:N	-:N	"Peep!" said the sparrows, "it's nothing.
162:162	D:N	D:N	It only looks like something.
163:163	Su+:N	+:N	Peep! that is 'the beautiful.'
164:164	N:N	N:N	Do you understand it?
165:165	N:N	N:N	I don't."
166:166	N:N	N:N	And they flew away, for some people came into the room.
167:167	N:N	N:N	Days and years went by.
168:168	N:H	N:H	The pigeons had often cooed, not to say growled- the spiteful creatures; the sparrows had been frozen in winter and had lived merrily in summer: they were all betrothed, or married, or whatever you like to call it.
169:169	N:N	N:H	They had little ones, and of course each one thought his own the handsomest and cleverest; one flew this way, another that, and when they met they recognised each other by their "Peep!" and the three scrapes with the left foot.
170:170	N:N	N:N	The eldest had remained an old maid and had no nest nor young ones.
171:171	N:N	N:N	It was her pet idea to see a great city, so she flew to Copenhagen.
172:172	N:N	N:N	There was a large house painted in many gay colours standing close to the castle and the canal, upon which latter were to be seen many ships laden with apples and pottery.
173:173	H:N	H:N	The windows of the house were broader at the bottom than at the top, and when the sparrows looked through them, every room appeared to them like a tulip with the brightest colours and shades.
174:174	N:N	N:N	But in the middle of the tulip stood white men, made of marble; a few were of plaster; still, looked at with sparrows' eyes, that comes to the same thing.
175:175	N:N	N:N	Up on the roof stood a metal chariot drawn by metal horses, and the goddess of Victory, also of metal, was driving.
176:176	N:N	N:N	It was Thorwaldsen's Museum.
177:177	H:N	H:H	"How it shines! how it shines!" said the maiden sparrow.
178:178	H:N	H:N	"I suppose that is 'the beautiful.'
179:179	N:N	N:N	Peep!
180:180	N:N	N:N	But here it is larger than a peacock."
181:181	N:N	N:N	She still remembered what in her childhood's days her mother had looked upon as the greatest among the beautiful.
182:182	N:N	N:H	She flew down into the courtyard: there everything was extremely fine.
183:183	N:N	N:N	Palms and branches were painted on the walls, and in the middle of the court stood a great blooming rose-tree spreading out its fresh boughs, covered with roses, over a grave.
184:184	N:N	N:N	Thither flew the maiden sparrow, for she saw several of her own kind there.
185:185	Su-:N	-:N	A "peep" and three foot-scrapings- in this way she had often greeted throughout the year, and no one here had responded, for those who are once parted do not meet every day; and so this greeting had become a habit with her.
186:186	N:N	N:N	But to-day two old sparrows and a young one answered with a "peep" and the thrice-repeated scrape with the left foot.
187:187	N:N	N:+	"Ah!
188:188	H:N	H:+	Good-day! good-day!"
189:189	N:N	H:H	They were two old ones from the nest and a little one of the family.
190:190	N:N	N:H	"Do we meet here?
191:191	N:N	N:N	It's a grand place, but there's not much to eat.
192:192	H:N	H:N	This is 'the beautiful.'
193:193	N:N	H:N	Peep!"
194:194	N:N	N:N	Many people came out of the side rooms where the beautiful marble statues stood and approached the grave where lay the great master who had created these works of art.
195:195	N:H	N:H	All stood with enraptured faces round Thorwaldsen's grave, and a few picked up the fallen rose-leaves and preserved them.
196:196	N:N	N:N	They had come from afar: one from mighty England, others from Germany and France.
197:197	N:N	N:N	The fairest of the ladies plucked one of the roses and hid it in her bosom.
198:198	N:N	N:N	Then the sparrows thought that the roses reigned here, and that the house had been built for their sake.
199:199	N:N	N:N	That appeared to them to be really too much, but since all the people showed their love for the roses, they did not wish to be behindhand.
200:200	Su+:N	+:N	"Peep!" they said sweeping the ground with their tails, and blinking with one eye at the roses, they had not looked at them long before they were convinced that they were their old neighbours.
201:201	N:N	N:+	And so they really were.
202:202	H:N	H:N	The painter who had drawn the rose-bush near the ruined house, had afterwards obtained permission to dig it up, and had given it to the architect, for finer roses had never been seen.
203:203	N:N	H:H	The architect had planted it upon Thorwaldsen's grave, where it bloomed as an emblem of 'the beautiful' and yielded fragrant red rose-leaves to be carried as mementoes to distant lands.
204:204	N:N	N:N	"Have you obtained an appointment here in the city?" asked the sparrows.
205:205	H:H	H:H	The roses nodded; they recognized their grey neighbours and were pleased to see them again.
206:206	H:N	H:H	"How glorious it is to live and to bloom, to see old friends again, and happy faces every day.
207:207	H:N	H:H	It is as if every day were a festival."
208:208	N:N	H:H	"Peep!" said the sparrows.
209:209	N:N	H:H	"Yes, they are really our old neighbours; we remember their origin near the pond.
210:210	H:N	H:H	Peep! how they have got on.
211:211	N:N	H:N	Yes, some succeed while they are asleep.
212:212	N:N	N:N	Ah! there's a faded leaf; I can see that quite plainly."
213:213	N:N	N:N	And they pecked at it till it fell off.
214:214	N:N	N:H	But the tree stood there fresher and greener than ever; the roses bloomed in the sunshine on Thorwaldsen's grave and became associated with his immortal name.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN China, you know, the emperor is a Chinese, and all those about him are Chinamen also.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The story I am going to tell you happened a great many years ago, so it is well to hear it now before it is forgotten.
2:2	N:N	N:N	The emperor's palace was the most beautiful in the world.
3:3	N:N	N:N	It was built entirely of porcelain, and very costly, but so delicate and brittle that whoever touched it was obliged to be careful.
4:4	N:N	N:N	In the garden could be seen the most singular flowers, with pretty silver bells tied to them, which tinkled so that every one who passed could not help noticing the flowers.
5:5	H:N	H:N	Indeed, everything in the emperor's garden was remarkable, and it extended so far that the gardener himself did not know where it ended.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Those who travelled beyond its limits knew that there was a noble forest, with lofty trees, sloping down to the deep blue sea, and the great ships sailed under the shadow of its branches.
7:7	N:N	N:N	In one of these trees lived a nightingale, who sang so beautifully that even the poor fishermen, who had so many other things to do, would stop and listen.
8:8	H:N	H:N	Sometimes, when they went at night to spread their nets, they would hear her sing, and say, "Oh, is not that beautiful?"
9:9	N:N	N:N	But when they returned to their fishing, they forgot the bird until the next night.
10:10	H:N	H:N	Then they would hear it again, and exclaim "Oh, how beautiful is the nightingale's song!"
11:11	N:N	N:H	Travellers from every country in the world came to the city of the emperor, which they admired very much, as well as the palace and gardens; but when they heard the nightingale, they all declared it to be the best of all.
12:12	N:N	N:H	And the travellers, on their return home, related what they had seen; and learned men wrote books, containing descriptions of the town, the palace, and the gardens; but they did not forget the nightingale, which was really the greatest wonder.
13:13	N:N	N:H	And those who could write poetry composed beautiful verses about the nightingale, who lived in a forest near the deep sea.
14:14	H:H	H:H	The books travelled all over the world, and some of them came into the hands of the emperor; and he sat in his golden chair, and, as he read, he nodded his approval every moment, for it pleased him to find such a beautiful description of his city, his palace, and his gardens.
15:15	Su-:N	-:-	But when he came to the words, "the nightingale is the most beautiful of all," he exclaimed, "What is this?
16:16	A:N	-:-	I know nothing of any nightingale.
17:17	A:N	-:-	Is there such a bird in my empire? and even in my garden?
18:18	N:N	N:-	I have never heard of it.
19:19	N:N	N:-	Something, it appears, may be learnt from books."
20:20	D:N	D:N	Then he called one of his lords-in-waiting, who was so high-bred, that when any in an inferior rank to himself spoke to him, or asked him a question, he would answer, "Pooh," which means nothing.
21:21	N:N	N:N	"There is a very wonderful bird mentioned here, called a nightingale," said the emperor; "they say it is the best thing in my large kingdom.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Why have I not been told of it?"
23:23	N:N	N:N	"I have never heard the name," replied the cavalier; "she has not been presented at court."
24:24	H:N	H:N	"It is my pleasure that she shall appear this evening." said the emperor; the whole world knows what I possess better than I do myself."
25:25	N:N	N:N	"I have never heard of her," said the cavalier; "yet I will endeavor to find her."
26:26	N:N	N:N	But where was the nightingale to be found?
27:27	N:N	N:N	The nobleman went up stairs and down, through halls and passages; yet none of those whom he met had heard of the bird.
28:28	N:N	N:N	So he returned to the emperor, and said that it must be a fable, invented by those who had written the book.
29:29	N:N	N:D	"Your imperial majesty," said he, "cannot believe everything contained in books; sometimes they are only fiction, or what is called the black art."
30:30	N:N	N:N	"But the book in which I have read this account," said the emperor, "was sent to me by the great and mighty emperor of Japan, and therefore it cannot contain a falsehood.
31:31	A:N	A:A	I will hear the nightingale, she must be here this evening; she has my highest favor; and if she does not come, the whole court shall be trampled upon after supper is ended."
32:32	F:Sa	F:S	"Tsing-pe!" cried the lord-in-waiting, and again he ran up and down stairs, through all the halls and corridors; and half the court ran with him, for they did not like the idea of being trampled upon.
33:33	N:N	N:N	There was a great inquiry about this wonderful nightingale, whom all the world knew, but who was unknown to the court.
34:34	N:N	N:N	At last they met with a poor little girl in the kitchen, who said, "Oh, yes, I know the nightingale quite well; indeed, she can sing.
35:35	N:N	N:S	Every evening I have permission to take home to my poor sick mother the scraps from the table; she lives down by the sea-shore, and as I come back I feel tired, and I sit down in the wood to rest, and listen to the nightingale's song.
36:36	H:H	H:H	Then the tears come into my eyes, and it is just as if my mother kissed me."
37:37	N:N	N:N	"Little maiden," said the lord-in-waiting, "I will obtain for you constant employment in the kitchen, and you shall have permission to see the emperor dine, if you will lead us to the nightingale; for she is invited for this evening to the palace."
38:38	N:N	N:N	So she went into the wood where the nightingale sang, and half the court followed her.
39:39	N:N	N:N	As they went along, a cow began lowing.
40:40	N:N	N:N	"Oh," said a young courtier, "now we have found her; what wonderful power for such a small creature; I have certainly heard it before."
41:41	N:N	N:N	"No, that is only a cow lowing," said the little girl; "we are a long way from the place yet."
42:42	N:N	N:N	Then some frogs began to croak in the marsh.
43:43	N:N	N:N	"Beautiful," said the young courtier again.
44:44	N:N	N:N	"Now I hear it, tinkling like little church bells."
45:45	N:N	N:N	"No, those are frogs," said the little maiden; "but I think we shall soon hear her now:" and presently the nightingale began to sing.
46:46	H:N	H:N	"Hark, hark! there she is," said the girl, "and there she sits," she added, pointing to a little gray bird who was perched on a bough.
47:47	Su-:N	-:N	"Is it possible?" said the lord-in-waiting, "I never imagined it would be a little, plain, simple thing like that.
48:48	N:N	N:N	She has certainly changed color at seeing so many grand people around her."
49:49	N:N	N:N	"Little nightingale," cried the girl, raising her voice, "our most gracious emperor wishes you to sing before him."
50:50	H:H	H:H	"With the greatest pleasure," said the nightingale, and began to sing most delightfully.
51:51	N:N	H:H	"It sounds like tiny glass bells," said the lord-in-waiting, "and see how her little throat works.
52:52	Su+:N	+:H	It is surprising that we have never heard this before; she will be a great success at court."
53:53	N:N	N:H	"Shall I sing once more before the emperor?" asked the nightingale, who thought he was present.
54:54	N:H	N:H	"My excellent little nightingale," said the courtier, "I have the great pleasure of inviting you to a court festival this evening, where you will gain imperial favor by your charming song."
55:55	N:N	N:H	"My song sounds best in the green wood," said the bird; but still she came willingly when she heard the emperor's wish.
56:56	N:N	N:H	The palace was elegantly decorated for the occasion.
57:57	N:N	N:H	The walls and floors of porcelain glittered in the light of a thousand lamps.
58:58	N:N	N:H	Beautiful flowers, round which little bells were tied, stood in the corridors: what with the running to and fro and the draught, these bells tinkled so loudly that no one could speak to be heard.
59:59	N:N	N:H	In the centre of the great hall, a golden perch had been fixed for the nightingale to sit on.
60:60	N:N	N:N	The whole court was present, and the little kitchen-maid had received permission to stand by the door.
61:61	N:N	N:N	She was not installed as a real court cook.
62:62	N:N	N:N	All were in full dress, and every eye was turned to the little gray bird when the emperor nodded to her to begin.
63:63	H:H	H:H	The nightingale sang so sweetly that the tears came into the emperor's eyes, and then rolled down his cheeks, as her song became still more touching and went to every one's heart.
64:64	H:H	H:H	The emperor was so delighted that he declared the nightingale should have his gold slipper to wear round her neck, but she declined the honor with thanks: she had been sufficiently rewarded already.
65:65	H:N	H:H	"I have seen tears in an emperor's eyes," she said, "that is my richest reward.
66:66	H:N	H:H	An emperor's tears have wonderful power, and are quite sufficient honor for me;" and then she sang again more enchantingly than ever.
67:67	H:N	H:N	"That singing is a lovely gift;" said the ladies of the court to each other; and then they took water in their mouths to make them utter the gurgling sounds of the nightingale when they spoke to any one, so thay they might fancy themselves nightingales.
68:68	N:H	H:H	And the footmen and chambermaids also expressed their satisfaction, which is saying a great deal, for they are very difficult to please.
69:69	N:N	H:H	In fact the nightingale's visit was most successful.
70:70	N:N	N:N	She was now to remain at court, to have her own cage, with liberty to go out twice a day, and once during the night.
71:71	N:N	N:N	Twelve servants were appointed to attend her on these occasions, who each held her by a silken string fastened to her leg.
72:72	N:Sa	N:S	There was certainly not much pleasure in this kind of flying.
73:73	N:N	N:N	The whole city spoke of the wonderful bird, and when two people met, one said "nightin," and the other said "gale," and they understood what was meant, for nothing else was talked of.
74:74	N:N	N:N	Eleven peddlers' children were named after her, but not of them could sing a note.
75:75	N:N	N:N	One day the emperor received a large packet on which was written "The Nightingale."
76:76	N:N	N:N	"Here is no doubt a new book about our celebrated bird," said the emperor.
77:77	N:N	N:N	But instead of a book, it was a work of art contained in a casket, an artificial nightingale made to look like a living one, and covered all over with diamonds, rubies, and sapphires.
78:78	N:N	N:N	As soon as the artificial bird was wound up, it could sing like the real one, and could move its tail up and down, which sparkled with silver and gold.
79:79	Su-:N	-:N	Round its neck hung a piece of ribbon, on which was written "The Emperor of China's nightingale is poor compared with that of the Emperor of Japan's."
80:80	N:N	N:H	"This is very beautiful," exclaimed all who saw it, and he who had brought the artificial bird received the title of "Imperial nightingale-bringer-in-chief."
81:81	H:N	H:H	"Now they must sing together," said the court, "and what a duet it will be."
82:82	N:Sa	N:S	But they did not get on well, for the real nightingale sang in its own natural way, but the artificial bird sang only waltzes.
83:83	N:N	N:H	"That is not a fault," said the music-master, "it is quite perfect to my taste," so then it had to sing alone, and was as successful as the real bird; besides, it was so much prettier to look at, for it sparkled like bracelets and breast-pins.
84:84	N:H	N:H	Three and thirty times did it sing the same tunes without being tired; the people would gladly have heard it again, but the emperor said the living nightingale ought to sing something.
85:85	N:N	N:N	But where was she?
86:86	N:N	N:-	No one had noticed her when she flew out at the open window, back to her own green woods.
87:87	Su-:A	-:A	"What strange conduct," said the emperor, when her flight had been discovered; and all the courtiers blamed her, and said she was a very ungrateful creature.
88:88	N:N	N:H	"But we have the best bird after all," said one, and then they would have the bird sing again, although it was the thirty-fourth time they had listened to the same piece, and even then they had not learnt it, for it was rather difficult.
89:89	H:N	H:H	But the music-master praised the bird in the highest degree, and even asserted that it was better than a real nightingale, not only in its dress and the beautiful diamonds, but also in its musical power.
90:90	N:N	N:H	"For you must perceive, my chief lord and emperor, that with a real nightingale we can never tell what is going to be sung, but with this bird everything is settled.
91:91	N:N	N:N	It can be opened and explained, so that people may understand how the waltzes are formed, and why one note follows upon another."
92:92	N:N	N:N	"This is exactly what we think," they all replied, and then the music-master received permission to exhibit the bird to the people on the following Sunday, and the emperor commanded that they should be present to hear it sing.
93:93	N:H	N:H	When they heard it they were like people intoxicated; however it must have been with drinking tea, which is quite a Chinese custom.
94:94	N:N	N:N	They all said "Oh!" and held up their forefingers and nodded, but a poor fisherman, who had heard the real nightingale, said, "it sounds prettily enough, and the melodies are all alike; yet there seems something wanting, I cannot exactly tell what."
95:95	Su-:N	-:N	And after this the real nightingale was banished from the empire, and the artificial bird placed on a silk cushion close to the emperor's bed.
96:96	N:N	N:H	The presents of gold and precious stones which had been received with it were round the bird, and it was now advanced to the title of "Little Imperial Toilet Singer," and to the rank of No. 1 on the left hand; for the emperor considered the left side, on which the heart lies, as the most noble, and the heart of an emperor is in the same place as that of other people.
97:97	F:F	N:F	The music-master wrote a work, in twenty-five volumes, about the artificial bird, which was very learned and very long, and full of the most difficult Chinese words; yet all the people said they had read it, and understood it, for fear of being thought stupid and having their bodies trampled upon.
98:98	H:H	H:H	So a year passed, and the emperor, the court, and all the other Chinese knew every little turn in the artificial bird's song; and for that same reason it pleased them better.
99:99	N:N	N:H	They could sing with the bird, which they often did.
100:100	N:N	N:H	The street-boys sang, "Zi-zi-zi, cluck, cluck, cluck," and the emperor himself could sing it also.
101:101	N:N	N:H	It was really most amusing.
102:102	N:N	N:N	One evening, when the artificial bird was singing its best, and the emperor lay in bed listening to it, something inside the bird sounded "whizz."
103:103	Su-:N	-:-	Then a spring cracked.
104:104	N:N	-:-	"Whir-r-r-r" went all the wheels, running round, and then the music stopped.
105:105	Su-:N	-:-	The emperor immediately sprang out of bed, and called for his physician; but what could he do?
106:106	N:N	N:S	Then they sent for a watchmaker; and, after a great deal of talking and examination, the bird was put into something like order; but he said that it must be used very carefully, as the barrels were worn, and it would be impossible to put in new ones without injuring the music.
107:107	Sa:Sa	S:S	Now there was great sorrow, as the bird could only be allowed to play once a year; and even that was dangerous for the works inside it.
108:108	N:N	N:N	Then the music-master made a little speech, full of hard words, and declared that the bird was as good as ever; and, of course no one contradicted him.
109:109	N:Sa	N:S	Five years passed, and then a real grief came upon the land.
110:110	Sa:N	S:S	The Chinese really were fond of their emperor, and he now lay so ill that he was not expected to live.
111:111	D:N	D:S	Already a new emperor had been chosen and the people who stood in the street asked the lord-in-waiting how the old emperor was; but he only said, "Pooh!" and shook his head.
112:112	Sa:Sa	S:S	Cold and pale lay the emperor in his royal bed; the whole court thought he was dead, and every one ran away to pay homage to his successor.
113:113	N:N	N:N	The chamberlains went out to have a talk on the matter, and the ladies'-maids invited company to take coffee.
114:114	N:N	N:N	Cloth had been laid down on the halls and passages, so that not a footstep should be heard, and all was silent and still.
115:115	N:N	N:N	But the emperor was not yet dead, although he lay white and stiff on his gorgeous bed, with the long velvet curtains and heavy gold tassels.
116:116	N:N	N:N	A window stood open, and the moon shone in upon the emperor and the artificial bird.
117:117	Su-:N	-:S	The poor emperor, finding he could scarcely breathe with a strange weight on his chest, opened his eyes, and saw Death sitting there.
118:118	N:N	N:S	He had put on the emperor's golden crown, and held in one hand his sword of state, and in the other his beautiful banner.
119:119	N:N	N:S	All around the bed and peeping through the long velvet curtains, were a number of strange heads, some very ugly, and others lovely and gentle-looking.
120:120	N:N	N:F	These were the emperor's good and bad deeds, which stared him in the face now Death sat at his heart.
121:121	N:N	N:N	"Do you remember this?"
122:122	N:F	N:F	"Do you recollect that?" they asked one after another, thus bringing to his remembrance circumstances that made the perspiration stand on his brow.
123:123	N:N	N:F	"I know nothing about it," said the emperor.
124:124	N:N	N:F	"Music! music!" he cried; "the large Chinese drum! that I may not hear what they say."
125:125	N:N	N:F	But they still went on, and Death nodded like a Chinaman to all they said.
126:126	F:N	F:F	"Music! music!" shouted the emperor.
127:127	F:N	F:A	"You little precious golden bird, sing, pray sing!
128:128	N:N	N:A	I have given you gold and costly presents; I have even hung my golden slipper round your neck.
129:129	A:N	F:A	Sing! sing!"
130:130	N:N	N:N	But the bird remained silent.
131:131	N:N	N:N	There was no one to wind it up, and therefore it could not sing a note.
132:132	N:N	F:F	Death continued to stare at the emperor with his cold, hollow eyes, and the room was fearfully still.
133:133	N:N	N:+	Suddenly there came through the open window the sound of sweet music.
134:134	N:N	N:+	Outside, on the bough of a tree, sat the living nightingale.
135:135	N:N	N:H	She had heard of the emperor's illness, and was therefore come to sing to him of hope and trust.
136:136	N:N	H:H	And as she sung, the shadows grew paler and paler; the blood in the emperor's veins flowed more rapidly, and gave life to his weak limbs; and even Death himself listened, and said, "Go on, little nightingale, go on."
137:137	N:N	N:H	"Then will you give me the beautiful golden sword and that rich banner? and will you give me the emperor's crown?" said the bird.
138:138	N:N	N:H	So Death gave up each of these treasures for a song; and the nightingale continued her singing.
139:139	N:N	H:H	She sung of the quiet churchyard, where the white roses grow, where the elder-tree wafts its perfume on the breeze, and the fresh, sweet grass is moistened by the mourners' tears.
140:140	N:N	N:H	Then Death longed to go and see his garden, and floated out through the window in the form of a cold, white mist.
141:141	H:N	H:H	"Thanks, thanks, you heavenly little bird.
142:142	N:N	H:H	I know you well.
143:143	H:N	H:H	I banished you from my kingdom once, and yet you have charmed away the evil faces from my bed, and banished Death from my heart, with your sweet song.
144:144	N:N	H:H	How can I reward you?"
145:145	H:N	H:H	"You have already rewarded me," said the nightingale.
146:146	H:N	H:H	"I shall never forget that I drew tears from your eyes the first time I sang to you.
147:147	H:H	H:H	These are the jewels that rejoice a singer's heart.
148:148	N:N	H:H	But now sleep, and grow strong and well again.
149:149	N:N	H:H	I will sing to you again."
150:150	N:H	N:H	And as she sung, the emperor fell into a sweet sleep; and how mild and refreshing that slumber was!
151:151	N:N	N:H	When he awoke, strengthened and restored, the sun shone brightly through the window; but not one of his servants had returned- they all believed he was dead; only the nightingale still sat beside him, and sang.
152:152	H:N	H:H	"You must always remain with me," said the emperor.
153:153	N:N	H:H	"You shall sing only when it pleases you; and I will break the artificial bird into a thousand pieces."
154:154	N:N	N:N	"No; do not do that," replied the nightingale; "the bird did very well as long as it could.
155:155	N:N	N:N	Keep it here still.
156:156	N:N	N:N	I cannot live in the palace, and build my nest; but let me come when I like.
157:157	H:H	H:H	I will sit on a bough outside your window, in the evening, and sing to you, so that you may be happy, and have thoughts full of joy.
158:158	N:N	H:N	I will sing to you of those who are happy, and those who suffer; of the good and the evil, who are hidden around you.
159:159	N:N	N:N	The little singing bird flies far from you and your court to the home of the fisherman and the peasant's cot.
160:160	N:H	N:H	I love your heart better than your crown; and yet something holy lingers round that also.
161:161	N:N	N:N	I will come, I will sing to you; but you must promise me one thing."
162:162	N:N	N:N	"Everything," said the emperor, who, having dressed himself in his imperial robes, stood with the hand that held the heavy golden sword pressed to his heart.
163:163	N:N	N:N	"I only ask one thing," she replied; "let no one know that you have a little bird who tells you everything.
164:164	N:N	N:N	It will be best to conceal it."
165:165	N:N	N:N	So saying, the nightingale flew away.
166:166	Su+:Su+	+:+	The servants now came in to look after the dead emperor; when, lo! there he stood, and, to their astonishment, said, "Good morning."
0:0	D:N	N:N	THAT was a terrible affair!" said a hen, and in a quarter of the town, too, where it had not taken place.
1:1	D:N	D:N	"That was a terrible affair in a hen-roost.
2:2	F:N	F:F	I cannot sleep alone to-night.
3:3	N:N	N:F	It is a good thing that many of us sit on the roost together."
4:4	N:N	F:F	And then she told a story that made the feathers on the other hens bristle up, and the cock's comb fall.
5:5	N:N	F:N	There was no doubt about it.
6:6	N:N	N:N	But we will begin at the beginning, and that is to be found in a hen-roost in another part of the town.
7:7	N:N	N:N	The sun was setting, and the fowls were flying on to their roost; one hen, with white feathers and short legs, used to lay her eggs according to the regulations, and was, as a hen, respectable in every way.
8:8	N:N	N:N	As she was flying upon the roost, she plucked herself with her beak, and a little feather came out.
9:9	H:N	H:N	"There it goes," she said; "the more I pluck, the more beautiful do I get."
10:10	H:H	H:H	She said this merrily, for she was the best of the hens, and, moreover, as had been said, very respectable.
11:11	N:N	N:N	With that she went to sleep.
12:12	N:H	N:H	It was dark all around, and hen sat close to hen, but the one who sat nearest to her merry neighbour did not sleep.
13:13	N:N	N:N	She had heard and yet not heard, as we are often obliged to do in this world, in order to live at peace; but she could not keep it from her neighbour on the other side any longer.
14:14	Su-:N	-:N	"Did you hear what was said?
15:15	D:N	D:N	I mention no names, but there is a hen here who intends to pluck herself in order to look well.
16:16	D:D	D:D	If I were a cock, I should despise her."
17:17	N:N	N:N	Just over the fowls sat the owl, with father owl and the little owls.
18:18	N:N	N:N	The family has sharp ears, and they all heard every word that their neighbour had said.
19:19	D:N	D:N	They rolled their eyes, and mother owl, beating her wings, said: "Don't listen to her!
20:20	N:N	N:N	But I suppose you heard what was said?
21:21	N:N	D:N	I heard it with my own ears, and one has to hear a great deal before they fall off.
22:22	D:N	D:N	There is one among the fowls who has so far forgotten what is becoming to a hen that she plucks out all her feathers and lets the cock see it."
23:23	A:N	D:A	"Prenez garde aux enfants!" said father owl; "children should not hear such things."
24:24	N:N	N:N	"But I must tell our neighbour owl about it; she is such an estimable owl to talk to."
25:25	N:N	N:N	And with that she flew away.
26:26	N:N	N:N	"Too-whoo!
27:27	N:N	N:N	Too-whoo!" they both hooted into the neighbour's dove-cot to the doves inside.
28:28	N:N	N:N	"Have you heard?
29:29	N:N	N:N	Have you heard?
30:30	N:N	N:N	Too-whoo!
31:31	N:N	D:S	There is a hen who has plucked out all her feathers for the sake of the cock; she will freeze to death, if she is not frozen already.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Too-whoo!"
33:33	Su-:N	-:-	"Where? where?" cooed the doves.
34:34	N:N	N:N	"In the neighbour's yard.
35:35	N:N	N:N	I have as good as seen it myself.
36:36	D:N	D:N	It is almost unbecoming to tell the story, but there is no doubt about it."
37:37	N:N	N:N	"Believe every word of what we tell you," said the doves, and cooed down into their poultry-yard.
38:38	N:N	D:N	"There is a hen- nay, some say that there are two- who have plucked out all their feathers, in order not to look like the others, and to attract the attention of the cock.
39:39	D:N	D:N	It is a dangerous game, for one can easily catch cold and die from fever, and both of these are dead already."
40:40	F:N	N:N	"Wake up! wake up!" crowed the cock, and flew upon his board.
41:41	F:N	-:S	Sleep was still in his eyes, but yet he crowed out: "Three hens have died of their unfortunate love for a cock.
42:42	Su-:N	-:S	They had plucked out all their feathers.
43:43	D:N	D:S	It is a horrible story: I will not keep it to myself, but let it go farther."
44:44	N:N	-:N	"Let it go farther," shrieked the bats, and the hens clucked and the cocks crowed, "Let it go farther!
45:45	N:N	-:N	Let it go farther!"
46:46	N:N	N:N	In this way the story travelled from poultry-yard to poultry-yard, and at last came back to the place from which it had really started.
47:47	N:N	-:S	"Five hens," it now ran, "have plucked out all their feathers to show which of them had grown leanest for love of the cock, and then they all pecked at each other till the blood ran down and they fell down dead, to the derision and shame of their family, and to the great loss of their owner."
48:48	D:D	D:D	The hen who had lost the loose little feather naturally did not recognise her own story, and being a respectable hen, said: "I despise those fowls; but there are more of that kind.
49:49	N:N	D:D	Such things ought not to be concealed, and I will do my best to get the story into the papers, so that it becomes known throughout the land; the hens have richly deserved it, and their family too."
50:50	N:N	N:N	It got into the papers, it was printed; and there is no doubt about it, one little feather may easily grow into five hens.
0:0	N:N	N:N	FATHER, and mother, and brothers, and sisters, were gone to the play; only little Anna and her grandpapa were left at home.
1:1	H:N	H:N	"We'll have a play too," he said, "and it may begin immediately."
2:2	Sa:N	S:N	"But we have no theatre," cried little Anna, "and we have no one to act for us; my old doll cannot, for she is a fright, and my new one cannot, for she must not rumple her new clothes."
3:3	N:N	N:N	"One can always get actors if one makes use of what one has," observed grandpapa.
4:4	N:N	N:N	"Now we'll go into the theatre.
5:5	N:N	N:N	Here we will put up a book, there another, and there a third, in a sloping row.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Now three on the other side; so, now we have the side scenes.
7:7	N:N	N:N	The old box that lies yonder may be the back stairs; and we'll lay the flooring on top of it.
8:8	N:N	N:N	The stage represents a room, as every one may see.
9:9	N:N	N:N	Now we want the actors.
10:10	N:N	N:N	Let us see what we can find in the plaything-box.
11:11	N:N	N:N	First the personages, and then we will get the play ready.
12:12	N:N	N:N	One after the other; that will be capital!
13:13	N:N	N:N	Here's a pipe-head, and yonder an odd glove; they will do very well for father and daughter."
14:14	N:N	N:N	"But those are only two characters," said little Anna.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"Here's my brother's old waistcoat- could not that play in our piece, too?"
16:16	N:N	N:N	"It's big enough, certainly," replied grandpapa.
17:17	N:N	N:N	"It shall be the lover.
18:18	N:N	N:N	There's nothing in the pockets, and that's very interesting, for that's half of an unfortunate attachment.
19:19	N:N	N:N	And here we have the nut-cracker's boots, with spurs to them.
20:20	H:N	H:N	Row, dow, dow! how they can stamp and strut!
21:21	N:N	N:N	They shall represent the unwelcome wooer, whom the lady does not like.
22:22	N:N	N:N	What kind of a play will you have now?
23:23	N:N	N:N	Shall it be a tragedy, or a domestic drama?"
24:24	H:N	H:N	"A domestic drama, please," said little Anna, "for the others are so fond of that.
25:25	N:N	N:N	Do you know one?"
26:26	N:N	N:N	"I know a hundred," said grandpapa.
27:27	N:N	N:N	"Those that are most in favor are from the French, but they are not good for little girls.
28:28	N:N	N:N	In the meantime, we may take one of the prettiest, for inside they're all very much alike.
29:29	N:N	N:N	Now I shake the pen!
30:30	N:N	N:N	Cock-a-lorum!
31:31	N:N	N:N	So now, here's the play, brin-bran-span new!
32:32	N:N	N:N	Now listen to the play-bill."
33:33	N:N	N:N	And grandpapa took a newspaper, and read as if he were reading from it:
34:34	N:N	N:N	THE PIPE-HEAD AND THE GOOD HEAD A Family Drama in One Act CHARACTERS
35:35	N:N	N:N	MR. PIPE-HEAD, a father.
36:36	N:N	N:N	MR. WAISTCOAT, a lover.
37:37	N:N	N:N	MISS GLOVE, a daughter.
38:38	N:N	N:N	MR. DE BOOTS, a suitor.
39:39	N:N	N:N	"And now we're going to begin.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The curtain rises.
41:41	N:N	N:N	We have no curtain, so it has risen already.
42:42	N:N	N:N	All the characters are there, and so we have them at hand.
43:43	N:N	N:N	Now I speak as Papa Pipe-head!
44:44	A:A	A:A	He's angry to-day.
45:45	N:N	N:N	One can see that he's a colored meerschaum.
46:46	A:N	A:N	"'Snik, snak, snurre, bassellurre!
47:47	A:N	A:N	I'm master of this house!
48:48	N:N	A:N	I'm the father of my daughter!
49:49	N:N	N:N	Will you hear what I have to say?
50:50	N:N	N:N	Mr. de Boots is a person in whom one may see one's face; his upper part is of morocco, and he has spurs into the bargain.
51:51	A:N	A:N	Snikke, snakke, snak!
52:52	N:N	A:N	He shall have my daughter!"
53:53	N:N	N:N	"Now listen to what the Waistcoat says, little Anna," said grandpapa.
54:54	N:N	N:N	"Now the Waistcoat's speaking.
55:55	N:H	N:H	The Waistcoat has a laydown collar, and is very modest; but he knows his own value, and has quite a right to say what he says: "'I haven't a spot on me!
56:56	N:N	N:H	Goodness of material ought to be appreciated.
57:57	H:N	H:H	I am of real silk, and have strings to me.'
58:58	N:N	N:N	"'- On the wedding day, but no longer; you don't keep your color in the wash.'
59:59	N:N	N:N	This is Mr. Pipe-head who is speaking.
60:60	N:N	N:N	'Mr. de Boots is water-tight, of strong leather, and yet very delicate; he can creak, and clank with his spurs, and has an Italian physiognomy-'" "But they ought to speak in verses," said Anna, "for I've heard that's the most charming way of all."
61:61	N:N	N:N	"They can do that too," replied grandpapa; "and if the public demands it, they will talk in that way.
62:62	N:N	N:N	Just look at little Miss Glove, how she's pointing her fingers!
63:63	H:H	H:H	"'Could I but have my love, Who then so happy as Glove!
64:64	N:N	N:N	Ah!
65:65	D:Sa	D:S	If I from him must part, I'm sure 'twill break my heart!' 'Bah!'
66:66	N:N	N:N	The last word was spoken by Mr. Pipe-head; and now it's Mr. Waistcoat's turn:
67:67	H:N	H:N	"'O Glove, my own dear, Though it cost thee a tear, Thou must be mine, For Holger Danske has sworn it!'
68:68	Su-:A	-:A	"Mr. de Boots, hearing this, kicks up, jingles his spurs, and knocks down three of the side-scenes."
69:69	H:N	H:N	"That's exceedingly charming!" cried little Anna.
70:70	N:N	N:N	"Silence! silence!" said grandpapa.
71:71	N:N	N:N	"Silent approbation will show that you are the educated public in the stalls.
72:72	N:N	N:N	Now Miss Glove sings her great song with startling effects:
73:73	N:N	N:N	"'I can't see, heigho!
74:74	N:N	N:N	And therefore I'll crow!
75:75	N:N	N:N	Kikkeriki, in the lofty hall!'
76:76	H:N	H:N	"Now comes the exciting part, little Anna.
77:77	N:N	N:N	This is the most important in all the play.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Mr. Waistcoat undoes himself, and addresses his speech to you, that you may applaud; but leave it alone,- that's considered more genteel.
79:79	N:N	N:N	"'I am driven to extremities!
80:80	N:N	N:N	Take care of yourself!
81:81	N:N	N:N	Now comes the plot!
82:82	N:N	N:D	You are the Pipe-head, and I am the good head- snap! there you go!"
83:83	N:N	N:N	"Do you notice this, little Anna?" asked grandpapa.
84:84	H:N	H:H	"That's a most charming comedy.
85:85	Su-:N	-:N	Mr. Waistcoat seized the old Pipe-head and put him in his pocket; there he lies, and the Waistcoat says: "'You are in my pocket; you can't come out till you promise to unite me to your daughter Glove on the left.
86:86	N:N	N:N	I hold out my right hand.'"
87:87	H:N	H:H	"That's awfully pretty," said little Anna.
88:88	N:N	N:N	"And now the old Pipe-head replies:
89:89	N:Sa	N:S	"'Though I'm all ear, Very stupid I appear: Where's my humor?
90:90	D:Sa	D:S	Gone, I fear, And I feel my hollow stick's not here, Ah! never, my dear, Did I feel so queer.
91:91	A:N	A:S	Oh! pray let me out, And like a lamb led to slaughter I'll betroth you, no doubt, To my daughter.'"
92:92	N:N	N:N	"Is the play over already?" asked little Anna.
93:93	N:N	N:N	"By no means," replied grandpapa.
94:94	N:N	N:N	"It's only all over with Mr. de Boots.
95:95	N:N	N:N	Now the lovers kneel down, and one of them sings:
96:96	N:N	N:N	"'Father!'
97:97	N:N	N:N	and the other,
98:98	N:N	N:H	'Come, do as you ought to do,- Bless your son and daughter.'
99:99	N:N	H:H	And they receive his blessing, and celebrate their wedding, and all the pieces of furniture sing in chorus,
100:100	N:N	N:H	"'Klink! clanks!
101:101	N:N	N:H	A thousand thanks; And now the play is over!'
102:102	H:N	H:H	"And now we'll applaud," said grandpapa.
103:103	N:N	N:H	"We'll call them all out, and the pieces of furniture too, for they are of mahogany."
104:104	N:N	N:H	"And is not our play just as good as those which the others have in the real theatre?"
105:105	H:N	H:H	"Our play is much better," said grandpapa.
106:106	N:N	N:H	"It is shorter, the performers are natural, and it has passed away the interval before tea-time."
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE is a street in Copenhagen with a very strange name.
1:1	N:N	N:N	It is called "Hysken" street.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Where the name came from, and what it means is very uncertain.
3:3	N:N	N:N	It is said to be German, but that is unjust to the Germans, for it would then be called "Hauschen," not "Hysken."
4:4	N:N	N:N	"Hauschen," means a little house; and for many years it consisted only of a few small houses, which were scarcely larger than the wooden booths we see in the market-places at fair time.
5:5	N:N	N:N	They were perhaps a little higher, and had windows; but the panes consisted of horn or bladder-skins, for glass was then too dear to have glazed windows in every house.
6:6	N:N	N:N	This was a long time ago, so long indeed that our grandfathers, and even great-grandfathers, would speak of those days as "olden times;" indeed, many centuries have passed since then.
7:7	N:N	N:N	The rich merchants in Bremen and Lubeck, who carried on trade in Copenhagen, did not reside in the town themselves, but sent their clerks, who dwelt in the wooden booths in the Hauschen street, and sold beer and spices.
8:8	N:N	N:N	The German beer was very good, and there were many sorts- from Bremen, Prussia, and Brunswick- and quantities of all sorts of spices, saffron, aniseed, ginger, and especially pepper; indeed, pepper was almost the chief article sold here; so it happened at last that the German clerks in Denmark got their nickname of "pepper gentry."
9:9	N:N	N:N	It had been made a condition with these clerks that they should not marry; so that those who lived to be old had to take care of themselves, to attend to their own comforts, and even to light their own fires, when they had any to light.
10:10	N:Sa	N:S	Many of them were very aged; lonely old boys, with strange thoughts and eccentric habits.
11:11	N:N	N:N	From this, all unmarried men, who have attained a certain age, are called, in Denmark, "pepper gentry;" and this must be remembered by all those who wish to understand the story.
12:12	N:N	N:N	These "pepper gentlemen," or, as they are called in England, "old bachelors," are often made a butt of ridicule; they are told to put on their nightcaps, draw them over their eyes, and go to sleep.
13:13	N:N	N:N	The boys in Denmark make a song of it, thus:-
14:14	N:N	N:D	"Poor old bachelor, cut your wood, Such a nightcap was never seen; Who would think it was ever clean?
15:15	N:N	N:D	Go to sleep, it will do you good."
16:16	N:N	N:S	So they sing about the "pepper gentleman;" so do they make sport of the poor old bachelor and his nightcap, and all because they really know nothing of either.
17:17	N:N	N:N	It is a cap that no one need wish for, or laugh at.
18:18	N:N	N:N	And why not?
19:19	N:N	N:N	Well, we shall hear in the story.
20:20	N:N	N:N	In olden times, Hauschen Street was not paved, and passengers would stumble out of one hole into another, as they generally do in unfrequented highways; and the street was so narrow, and the booths leaning against each other were so close together, that in the summer time a sail would be stretched across the street from one booth to another opposite.
21:21	N:N	N:N	At these times the odor of the pepper, saffron, and ginger became more powerful than ever.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Behind the counter, as a rule, there were no young men.
23:23	N:N	N:N	The clerks were almost all old boys; but they did not dress as we are accustomed to see old men represented, wearing wigs, nightcaps, and knee-breeches, and with coat and waistcoat buttoned up to the chin.
24:24	N:N	N:N	We have seen the portraits of our great-grandfathers dressed in this way; but the "pepper gentlemen" had no money to spare to have their portraits taken, though one of them would have made a very interesting picture for us now, if taken as he appeared standing behind his counter, or going to church, or on holidays.
25:25	N:N	N:N	On these occasions, they wore high-crowned, broad-brimmed hats, and sometimes a younger clerk would stick a feather in his.
26:26	N:N	N:N	The woollen shirt was concealed by a broad, linen collar; the close jacket was buttoned up to the chin, and the cloak hung loosely over it; the trousers were tucked into the broad, tipped shoes, for the clerks wore no stockings.
27:27	N:N	N:N	They generally stuck a table-knife and spoon in their girdles, as well as a larger knife, as a protection to themselves; and such a weapon was often very necessary.
28:28	N:N	N:N	After this fashion was Anthony dressed on holidays and festivals, excepting that, instead of a high-crowned hat, he wore a kind of bonnet, and under it a knitted cap, a regular nightcap, to which he was so accustomed that it was always on his head; he had two, nightcaps I mean, not heads.
29:29	N:N	N:N	Anthony was one of the oldest of the clerks, and just the subject for a painter.
30:30	N:N	N:N	He was as thin as a lath, wrinkled round the mouth and eyes, had long, bony fingers, bushy, gray eyebrows, and over his left eye hung a thick tuft of hair, which did not look handsome, but made his appearance very remarkable.
31:31	N:N	N:N	People knew that he came from Bremen; it was not exactly his home, although his master resided there.
32:32	N:N	N:N	His ancestors were from Thuringia, and had lived in the town of Eisenach, close by Wartburg.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Old Anthony seldom spoke of this place, but he thought of it all the more.
34:34	N:N	N:N	The old clerks of Hauschen Street very seldom met together; each one remained in his own booth, which was closed early enough in the evening, and then it looked dark and dismal out in the street.
35:35	N:N	N:N	Only a faint glimmer of light struggled through the horn panes in the little window on the roof, while within sat the old clerk, generally on his bed, singing his evening hymn in a low voice; or he would be moving about in his booth till late in the night, busily employed in many things.
36:36	N:N	N:N	It certainly was not a very lively existence.
37:37	N:N	N:S	To be a stranger in a strange land is a bitter lot; no one notices you unless you happen to stand in their way.
38:38	N:N	N:S	Often, when it was dark night outside, with rain or snow falling, the place looked quite deserted and gloomy.
39:39	N:N	N:N	There were no lamps in the street, excepting a very small one, which hung at one end of the street, before a picture of the Virgin, which had been painted on the wall.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The dashing of the water against the bulwarks of a neighboring castle could plainly be heard.
41:41	N:N	N:N	Such evenings are long and dreary, unless people can find something to do; and so Anthony found it.
42:42	N:N	N:N	There were not always things to be packed or unpacked, nor paper bags to be made, nor the scales to be polished.
43:43	N:N	N:N	So Anthony invented employment; he mended his clothes and patched his boots, and when he at last went to bed,- his nightcap, which he had worn from habit, still remained on his head; he had only to pull it down a little farther over his forehead.
44:44	N:N	N:N	Very soon, however, it would be pushed up again to see if the light was properly put out; he would touch it, press the wick together, and at last pull his nightcap over his eyes and lie down again on the other side.
45:45	N:N	N:N	But often there would arise in his mind a doubt as to whether every coal had been quite put out in the little fire-pan in the shop below.
46:46	F:N	N:N	If even a tiny spark had remained it might set fire to something, and cause great damage.
47:47	N:N	N:N	Then he would rise from his bed, creep down the ladder- for it could scarcely be called a flight of stairs- and when he reached the fire-pan not a spark could be seen; so he had just to go back again to bed.
48:48	F:N	N:N	But often, when he had got half way back, he would fancy the iron shutters of the door were not properly fastened, and his thin legs would carry him down again.
49:49	N:Sa	N:S	And when at last he crept into bed, he would be so cold that his teeth chattered in his head.
50:50	N:N	N:N	He would draw the coverlet closer round him, pull his nightcap over his eyes, and try to turn his thoughts from trade, and from the labors of the day, to olden times.
51:51	Sa:Sa	N:S	But this was scarcely an agreeable entertainment; for thoughts of olden memories raise the curtains from the past, and sometimes pierce the heart with painful recollections till the agony brings tears to the waking eyes.
52:52	Sa:Sa	S:S	And so it was with Anthony; often the scalding tears, like pearly drops, would fall from his eyes to the coverlet and roll on the floor with a sound as if one of his heartstrings had broken.
53:53	N:N	N:S	Sometimes, with a lurid flame, memory would light up a picture of life which had never faded from his heart.
54:54	Sa:Sa	S:S	If he dried his eyes with his nightcap, then the tear and the picture would be crushed; but the source of the tears remained and welled up again in his heart.
55:55	Sa:N	S:S	The pictures did not follow one another in order, as the circumstances they represented had occurred; very often the most painful would come together, and when those came which were most full of joy, they had always the deepest shadow thrown upon them.
56:56	N:N	N:N	The beech woods of Denmark are acknowledged by every one to be very beautiful, but more beautiful still in the eyes of old Anthony were the beech woods in the neighborhood of Wartburg.
57:57	N:N	N:N	More grand and venerable to him seemed the old oaks around the proud baronial castle, where the creeping plants hung over the stony summits of the rocks; sweeter was the perfume there of the apple-blossom than in all the land of Denmark.
58:58	N:Sa	S:S	How vividly were represented to him, in a glittering tear that rolled down his cheek, two children at play- a boy and a girl.
59:59	N:N	N:S	The boy had rosy cheeks, golden ringlets, and clear, blue eyes; he was the son of Anthony, a rich merchant; it was himself.
60:60	N:N	N:N	The little girl had brown eyes and black hair, and was clever and courageous; she was the mayor's daughter, Molly.
61:61	N:N	N:N	The children were playing with an apple; they shook the apple, and heard the pips rattling in it.
62:62	N:N	N:N	Then they cut it in two, and each of them took half.
63:63	N:N	N:N	They also divided the pips and ate all but one, which the little girl proposed should be placed in the ground.
64:64	N:N	N:N	"You will see what will come out," she said; "something you don't expect.
65:65	N:N	N:N	A whole apple-tree will come out, but not directly."
66:66	H:H	H:H	Then they got a flower-pot, filled it with earth, and were soon both very busy and eager about it.
67:67	N:N	N:N	The boy made a hole in the earth with his finger, and the little girl placed the pip in the hole, and then they both covered it over with earth.
68:68	N:N	N:N	"Now you must not take it out to-morrow to see if it has taken root," said Molly; "no one ever should do that.
69:69	N:N	N:N	I did so with my flowers, but only twice; I wanted to see if they were growing.
70:70	N:N	N:N	I didn't know any better then, and the flowers all died."
71:71	N:N	N:N	Little Anthony kept the flower-pot, and every morning during the whole winter he looked at it, but there was nothing to be seen but black earth.
72:72	N:N	N:N	At last, however, the spring came, and the sun shone warm again, and then two little green leaves sprouted forth in the pot.
73:73	H:N	H:N	"They are Molly and me," said the boy.
74:74	H:N	H:H	"How wonderful they are, and so beautiful!"
75:75	N:N	N:H	Very soon a third leaf made its appearance.
76:76	N:N	N:H	"Who does that stand for?" thought he, and then came another and another.
77:77	N:N	N:H	Day after day, and week after week, till the plant became quite a tree.
78:78	Sa:N	S:S	And all this about the two children was mirrored to old Anthony in a single tear, which could soon be wiped away and disappear, but might come again from its source in the heart of the old man.
79:79	N:N	N:N	In the neighborhood of Eisenach stretches a ridge of stony mountains, one of which has a rounded outline, and shows itself above the rest without tree, bush, or grass on its barren summits.
80:80	N:N	N:N	It is called the "Venus Mountain," and the story goes that the "Lady Venus," one of the heathen goddesses, keeps house there.
81:81	N:N	N:N	She is also called "Lady Halle," as every child round Eisenach well knows.
82:82	N:N	N:N	She it was who enticed the noble knight, Tannhauser, the minstrel, from the circle of singers at Wartburg into her mountain.
83:83	N:N	N:N	Little Molly and Anthony often stood by this mountain, and one day Molly said, "Do you dare to knock and say, 'Lady Halle, Lady Halle, open the door: Tannhauser is here!'"
84:84	N:N	N:N	But Anthony did not dare.
85:85	N:N	N:H	Molly, however, did, though she only said the words, "Lady Halle, Lady Halle," loudly and distinctly; the rest she muttered so much under her breath that Anthony felt certain she had really said nothing; and yet she looked quite bold and saucy, just as she did sometimes when she was in the garden with a number of other little girls; they would all stand round him together, and want to kiss him, because he did not like to be kissed, and pushed them away.
86:86	N:N	N:H	Then Molly was the only one who dared to resist him.
87:87	H:N	H:H	"I may kiss him," she would say proudly, as she threw her arms round his neck; she was vain of her power over Anthony, for he would submit quietly and think nothing of it.
88:88	N:N	H:H	Molly was very charming, but rather bold; and how she did tease!
89:89	N:N	N:N	They said Lady Halle was beautiful, but her beauty was that of a tempting fiend.
90:90	N:N	N:N	Saint Elizabeth, the tutelar saint of the land, the pious princess of Thuringia, whose good deeds have been immortalized in so many places through stories and legends, had greater beauty and more real grace.
91:91	N:N	N:N	Her picture hung in the chapel, surrounded by silver lamps; but it did not in the least resemble Molly.
92:92	N:N	N:H	The apple-tree, which the two children had planted, grew year after year, till it became so large that it had to be transplanted into the garden, where the dew fell and the sun shone warmly.
93:93	N:N	N:H	And there it increased in strength so much as to be able to withstand the cold of winter; and after passing through the severe weather, it seemed to put forth its blossoms in spring for very joy that the cold season had gone.
94:94	N:N	N:H	In autumn it produced two apples, one for Molly and one for Anthony; it could not well do less.
95:95	N:N	N:H	The tree after this grew very rapidly, and Molly grew with the tree.
96:96	N:N	N:N	She was as fresh as an apple-blossom, but Anthony was not to behold this flower for long.
97:97	N:N	N:N	All things change; Molly's father left his old home, and Molly went with him far away.
98:98	N:N	N:S	In our time, it would be only a journey of a few hours, but then it took more than a day and a night to travel so far eastward from Eisenbach to a town still called Weimar, on the borders of Thuringia.
99:99	Sa:Sa	S:S	And Molly and Anthony both wept, but these tears all flowed together into one tear which had the rosy shimmer of joy.
100:100	H:N	H:H	Molly had told him that she loved him- loved him more than all the splendors of Weimar.
101:101	Sa:N	S:N	One, two, three years went by, and during the whole time he received only two letters.
102:102	N:N	N:N	One came by the carrier, and the other a traveller brought.
103:103	N:N	N:N	The way was very long and difficult, with many turnings and windings through towns and villages.
104:104	N:N	N:S	How often had Anthony and Molly heard the story of Tristan and Isolda, and Anthony had thought the story applied to him, although Tristan means born in sorrow, which Anthony certainly was not; nor was it likely he would ever say of Molly as Tristan said of Isolda, "She has forgotten me."
105:105	N:N	N:N	But in truth, Isolda had not forgotten him, her faithful friend; and when both were laid in their graves, one, on each side of the church, the linden-trees that grew by each grave spread over the roof, and, bending towards each other, mingled their blossoms together.
106:106	N:N	N:S	Anthony thought it a very beautiful but mournful story; yet he never feared anything so sad would happen to him and Molly, as he passed the spot, whistling the air of a song, composed by the minstrel Walter, called the "Willow bird," beginning-
107:107	N:N	N:N	"Under the linden-trees, Out on the heath."
108:108	H:H	H:H	One stanza pleased him exceedingly-
109:109	H:N	H:H	"Through the forest, and in the vale, Sweetly warbles the nightingale.
110:110	N:N	N:H	This song was often in his mouth, and he sung or whistled it on a moonlight night, when he rode on horseback along the deep, hollow way, on his road to Weimar, to visit Molly.
111:111	N:N	N:N	He wished to arrive unexpectedly, and so indeed he did.
112:112	H:N	H:H	He was received with a hearty welcome, and introduced to plenty of grand and pleasant company, where overflowing winecups were passed about.
113:113	N:N	N:N	A pretty room and a good bed were provided for him, and yet his reception was not what he had expected and dreamed it would be.
114:114	N:N	N:S	He could not comprehend his own feelings nor the feelings of others; but it is easily understood how a person can be admitted into a house or a family without becoming one of them.
115:115	N:N	N:N	We converse in company with those we meet, as we converse with our fellow-travellers in a stage-coach, on a journey; we know nothing of them, and perhaps all the while we are incommoding one another, and each is wishing himself or his neighbor away.
116:116	N:N	N:N	Something of this kind Anthony felt when Molly talked to him of old times.
117:117	N:N	N:N	"I am a straightforward girl," she said, "and I will tell you myself how it is.
118:118	N:N	N:N	There have been great changes since we were children together; everything is different, both inwardly and outwardly.
119:119	N:N	N:N	We cannot control our wills, nor the feelings of our hearts, by the force of custom.
120:120	N:N	N:N	Anthony, I would not, for the world, make an enemy of you when I am far away.
121:121	N:N	N:S	Believe me, I entertain for you the kindest wishes in my heart; but to feel for you what I now know can be felt for another man, can never be.
122:122	N:N	N:S	You must try and reconcile yourself to this.
123:123	N:N	N:S	Farewell, Anthony."
124:124	Sa:N	S:S	Anthony also said, "Farewell."
125:125	Sa:N	A:S	Not a tear came into his eye; he felt he was no longer Molly's friend.
126:126	A:A	A:A	Hot iron and cold iron alike take the skin from our lips, and we feel the same sensation if we kiss either; and Anthony's kiss was now the kiss of hatred, as it had once been the kiss of love.
127:127	N:N	N:A	Within four-and-twenty hours Anthony was back again to Eisenach, though the horse that he rode was entirely ruined.
128:128	Sa:N	S:A	"What matters it?" said he; "I am ruined also.
129:129	A:N	A:A	I will destroy everything that can remind me of her, or of Lady Halle, or Lady Venus, the heathen woman.
130:130	A:N	A:A	I will break down the apple-tree, and tear it up by the roots; never more shall it blossom or bear fruit."
131:131	N:N	N:A	The apple-tree was not broken down; for Anthony himself was struck with a fever, which caused him to break down, and confined him to his bed.
132:132	N:N	N:N	But something occurred to raise him up again.
133:133	N:N	N:N	What was it?
134:134	N:N	N:S	A medicine was offered to him, which he was obliged to take: a bitter remedy, at which the sick body and the oppressed spirit alike shuddered.
135:135	N:N	N:S	Anthony's father lost all his property, and, from being known as one of the richest merchants, he became very poor.
136:136	Sa:N	S:S	Dark days, heavy trials, with poverty at the door, came rolling into the house upon them like the waves of the sea.
137:137	Sa:Sa	S:S	Sorrow and suffering deprived Anthony's father of his strength, so that he had something else to think of besides nursing his love-sorrows and his anger against Molly.
138:138	N:N	S:N	He had to take his father's place, to give orders, to act with energy, to help, and, at last, to go out into the world and earn his bread.
139:139	N:N	S:S	Anthony went to Bremen, and there he learnt what poverty and hard living really were.
140:140	N:N	N:S	These things often harden the character, but sometimes soften the heart, even too much.
141:141	Su-:N	-:N	How different the world, and the people in it, appeared to Anthony now, to what he had thought in his childhood!
142:142	N:N	N:N	What to him were the minstrel's songs?
143:143	N:N	N:S	An echo of the past, sounds long vanished.
144:144	N:H	N:H	At times he would think in this way; yet again and again the songs would sound in his soul, and his heart become gentle and pious.
145:145	H:N	N:N	"God's will is the best," he would then say.
146:146	N:N	N:N	"It was well that I was not allowed to keep my power over Molly's heart, and that she did not remain true to me.
147:147	N:N	N:N	How I should have felt it now, when fortune has deserted me!
148:148	N:N	N:N	She left me before she knew of the change in my circumstances, or had a thought of what was before me.
149:149	N:N	N:N	That is a merciful providence for me.
150:150	H:N	N:N	All has happened for the best.
151:151	D:N	D:S	She could not help it, and yet I have been so bitter, and in such enmity against her."
152:152	N:N	S:S	Years passed by: Anthony's father died, and strangers lived in the old house.
153:153	N:N	N:S	He had seen it once again since then.
154:154	N:N	N:N	His rich master sent him journeys on business, and on one occasion his way led him to his native town of Eisenach.
155:155	N:N	N:N	The old Wartburg castle stood unchanged on the rock where the monk and the nun were hewn out of the stone.
156:156	N:N	N:N	The great oaks formed an outline to the scene which he so well remembered in his childhood.
157:157	N:N	N:N	The Venus mountain stood out gray and bare, overshadowing the valley beneath.
158:158	N:N	N:N	He would have been glad to call out "Lady Halle, Lady Halle, unlock the mountain.
159:159	N:N	N:N	I would fain remain here always in my native soil."
160:160	N:N	N:N	That was a sinful thought, and he offered a prayer to drive it away.
161:161	N:N	N:N	Then a little bird in the thicket sang out clearly, and old Anthony thought of the minstrel's song.
162:162	Sa:Sa	S:S	How much came back to his remembrance as he looked through the tears once more on his native town!
163:163	N:N	N:N	The old house was still standing as in olden times, but the garden had been greatly altered; a pathway led through a portion of the ground, and outside the garden, and beyond the path, stood the old apple-tree, which he had not broken down, although he talked of doing so in his trouble.
164:164	N:N	N:N	The sun still threw its rays upon the tree, and the refreshing dew fell upon it as of old; and it was so overloaded with fruit that the branches bent towards the earth with the weight.
165:165	H:N	H:H	"That flourishes still," said he, as he gazed.
166:166	N:N	N:N	One of the branches of the tree had, however, been broken: mischievous hands must have done this in passing, for the tree now stood in a public thoroughfare.
167:167	D:N	D:S	"The blossoms are often plucked," said Anthony; "the fruit is stolen and the branches broken without a thankful thought of their profusion and beauty.
168:168	N:N	N:S	It might be said of a tree, as it has been said of some men- it was not predicted at his cradle that he should come to this.
169:169	N:N	N:S	How brightly began the history of this tree, and what is it now?
170:170	D:N	D:S	Forsaken and forgotten, in a garden by a hedge in a field, and close to a public road.
171:171	D:N	D:S	There it stands, unsheltered, plundered, and broken.
172:172	Sa:N	S:S	It certainly has not yet withered; but in the course of years the number of blossoms from time to time will grow less, and at last it was cease altogether to bear fruit; and then its history will be over."
173:173	N:N	N:N	Such were Anthony's thoughts as he stood under the tree, and during many a long night as he lay in his lonely chamber in the wooden house in Hauschen Street, Copenhagen, in the foreign land to which the rich merchant of Bremen, his employer, had sent him on condition that he should never marry.
174:174	N:Sa	N:S	"Marry! ha, ha!" and he laughed bitterly to himself at the thought.
175:175	N:N	N:N	Winter one year set in early, and it was freezing hard.
176:176	N:N	N:N	Without, a snowstorm made every one remain at home who could do so.
177:177	N:N	N:N	Thus it happened that Anthony's neighbors, who lived opposite to him, did not notice that his house remained unopened for two days, and that he had not showed himself during that time, for who would go out in such weather unless he were obliged to do so.
178:178	N:N	N:S	They were gray, gloomy days, and in the house whose windows were not glass, twilight and dark nights reigned in turns.
179:179	N:N	N:S	During these two days old Anthony had not left his bed, he had not the strength to do so.
180:180	N:N	N:S	The bitter weather had for some time affected his limbs.
181:181	Sa:Sa	S:S	There lay the old bachelor, forsaken by all, and unable to help himself.
182:182	N:N	N:S	He could scarcely reach the water jug that he had placed by his bed, and the last drop was gone.
183:183	N:N	S:S	It was not fever, nor sickness, but old age, that had laid him low.
184:184	N:N	N:S	In the little corner, where his bed lay, he was over-shadowed as it were by perpetual night.
185:185	N:H	N:H	A little spider, which he could however not see, busily and cheerfully spun its web above him, so that there should be a kind of little banner waving over the old man, when his eyes closed.
186:186	N:N	S:S	The time passed slowly and painfully.
187:187	N:N	N:S	He had no tears to shed, and he felt no pain; no thought of Molly came into his mind.
188:188	N:N	S:S	He felt as if the world was now nothing to him, as if he were lying beyond it, with no one to think of him.
189:189	N:N	S:S	Now and then he felt slight sensations of hunger and thirst; but no one came to him, no one tended him.
190:190	N:N	N:N	He thought of all those who had once suffered from starvation, of Saint Elizabeth, who once wandered on the earth, the saint of his home and his childhood, the noble Duchess of Thuringia, that highly esteemed lady who visited the poorest villages, bringing hope and relief to the sick inmates.
191:191	N:H	N:H	The recollection of her pious deeds was as light to the soul of poor Anthony.
192:192	N:N	N:N	He thought of her as she went about speaking words of comfort, binding up the wounds of the afflicted and feeding the hungry, although often blamed for it by her stern husband.
193:193	N:F	N:F	He remembered a story told of her, that on one occasion, when she was carrying a basket full of wine and provisions, her husband, who had watched her footsteps, stepped forward and asked her angrily what she carried in her basket, whereupon, with fear and trembling, she answered, "Roses, which I have plucked from the garden."
194:194	N:Su+	N:+	Then he tore away the cloth which covered the basket, and what could equal the surprise of the pious woman, to find that by a miracle, everything in her basket- the wine, the bread- had all been changed into roses.
195:195	N:H	N:H	In this way the memory of the kind lady dwelt in the calm mind of Anthony.
196:196	N:N	N:H	She was as a living reality in his little dwelling in the Danish land.
197:197	N:N	N:H	He uncovered his face that he might look into her gentle eyes, while everything around him changed from its look of poverty and want, to a bright rose tint.
198:198	N:N	H:H	The fragrance of roses spread through the room, mingled with the sweet smell of apples.
199:199	H:N	S:H	He saw the branches of an apple-tree spreading above him.
200:200	N:N	H:H	It was the tree which he and Molly had planted together.
201:201	H:H	H:H	The fragrant leaves of the tree fell upon him and cooled his burning brow; upon his parched lips they seemed like refreshing bread and wine; and as they rested on his breast, a peaceful calm stole over him, and he felt inclined to sleep.
202:202	N:N	N:N	"I shall sleep now," he whispered to himself.
203:203	N:N	N:N	"Sleep will do me good.
204:204	N:N	H:N	In the morning I shall be upon my feet again, strong and well.
205:205	H:N	H:H	Glorious! wonderful!
206:206	H:N	H:H	That apple-tree, planted in love, now appears before me in heavenly beauty."
207:207	N:N	N:N	And he slept.
208:208	N:N	N:N	The following day, the third day during which his house had been closed, the snow-storm ceased.
209:209	N:N	N:N	Then his opposite neighbor stepped over to the house in which old Anthony lived, for he had not yet showed himself.
210:210	N:N	S:N	There he lay stretched on his bed, dead, with his old nightcap tightly clasped in his two hands.
211:211	N:N	N:N	The nightcap, however, was not placed on his head in his coffin; he had a clean white one on then.
212:212	N:N	N:N	Where now were the tears he had shed?
213:213	N:N	N:N	What had become of those wonderful pearls?
214:214	N:N	N:N	They were in the nightcap still.
215:215	N:N	N:N	Such tears as these cannot be washed out, even when the nightcap is forgotten.
216:216	N:N	N:N	The old thoughts and dreams of a bachelor's nightcap still remain.
217:217	N:N	N:N	Never wish for such a nightcap.
218:218	N:N	N:A	It would make your forehead hot, cause your pulse to beat with agitation, and conjure up dreams which would appear realities.
219:219	N:N	N:N	The first who wore old Anthony's cap felt the truth of this, though it was half a century afterwards.
220:220	N:N	N:N	That man was the mayor himself, who had already made a comfortable home for his wife and eleven children, by his industry.
221:221	N:N	S:S	The moment he put the cap on he dreamed of unfortunate love, of bankruptcy, and of dark days.
222:222	Su-:N	-:S	"Hallo! how the nightcap burns!" he exclaimed, as he tore it from his bead.
223:223	N:N	S:N	Then a pearl rolled out, and then another, and another, and they glittered and sounded as they fell.
224:224	N:N	N:+	"What can this be?
225:225	N:N	N:+	Is it paralysis, or something dazzling my eyes?"
226:226	N:N	N:N	They were the tears which old Anthony had shed half a century before.
227:227	N:N	N:A	To every one who afterwards put this cap on his head, came visions and dreams which agitated him not a little.
228:228	N:N	N:N	His own history was changed into that of Anthony till it became quite a story, and many stories might be made by others, so we will leave them to relate their own.
229:229	N:N	N:N	We have told the first; and our last word is, don't wish for a "bachelor's nightcap."
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the country of Wurtemburg, in Germany, where the acacias grow by the public road, where the apple-trees and the pear-trees in autumn bend to the earth with the weight of the precious fruit, lies the little town of Marbach.
1:1	N:N	N:N	As is often the case with many of these towns, it is charmingly situated on the banks of the river Neckar, which rushes rapidly by, passing villages, old knights' castles, and green vineyards, till its waters mingle with those of the stately Rhine.
2:2	N:N	N:N	It was late in the autumn; the vine-leaves still hung upon the branches of the vines, but they were already tinted with red and gold; heavy showers fell on the surrounding country, and the cold autumn wind blew sharp and strong.
3:3	N:N	N:S	It was not at all pleasant weather for the poor.
4:4	N:N	S:S	The days grew shorter and more gloomy, and, dark as it was out of doors in the open air, it was still darker within the small, old-fashioned houses of the village.
5:5	N:N	S:S	The gable end of one of these houses faced the street, and with its small, narrow windows, presented a very mean appearance.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The family who dwelt in it were also very poor and humble, but they treasured the fear of God in their innermost hearts.
7:7	N:N	N:N	And now He was about to send them a child.
8:8	N:Sa	N:S	It was the hour of the mother's sorrow, when there pealed forth from the church tower the sound of festive bells.
9:9	H:H	H:H	In that solemn hour the sweet and joyous chiming filled the hearts of those in the humble dwelling with thankfulness and trust; and when, amidst these joyous sounds, a little son was born to them, the words of prayer and praise arose from their overflowing hearts, and their happiness seemed to ring out over town and country in the liquid tones of the church bells' chime.
10:10	N:H	H:H	The little one, with its bright eyes and golden hair, had been welcomed joyously on that dark November day.
11:11	H:H	H:H	Its parents kissed it lovingly, and the father wrote these words in the Bible, "On the tenth of November, 1759, God sent us a son."
12:12	N:N	N:N	And a short time after, when the child had been baptized, the names he had received were added, "John Christopher Frederick."
13:13	N:N	N:N	And what became of the little lad?- the poor boy of the humble town of Marbach?
14:14	N:N	N:N	Ah, indeed, there was no one who thought or supposed, not even the old church bell which had been the first to sound and chime for him, that he would be the first to sing the beautiful song of "The Bell."
15:15	N:N	N:N	The boy grew apace, and the world advanced with him.
16:16	N:N	N:N	While he was yet a child, his parents removed from Marbach, and went to reside in another town; but their dearest friends remained behind at Marbach, and therefore sometimes the mother and her son would start on a fine day to pay a visit to the little town.
17:17	N:N	N:N	The boy was at this time about six years old, and already knew a great many stories out of the Bible, and several religious psalms.
18:18	N:N	N:N	While seated in the evening on his little cane-chair, he had often heard his father read from Gellert's fables, and sometimes from Klopstock's grand poem, "The Messiah."
19:19	Sa:Sa	S:S	He and his sister, two years older than himself, had often wept scalding tears over the story of Him who suffered death on the cross for us all.
20:20	N:N	N:N	On his first visit to Marbach, the town appeared to have changed but very little, and it was not far enough away to be forgotten.
21:21	N:N	N:N	The house, with its pointed gable, narrow windows, overhanging walls and stories, projecting one beyond another, looked just the same as in former times.
22:22	N:N	+:N	But in the churchyard there were several new graves; and there also, in the grass, close by the wall, stood the old church bell!
23:23	N:N	N:S	It had been taken down from its high position, in consequence of a crack in the metal which prevented it from ever chiming again, and a new bell now occupied its place.
24:24	N:N	N:S	The mother and son were walking in the churchyard when they discovered the old bell, and they stood still to look at it.
25:25	N:N	N:N	Then the mother reminded her little boy of what a useful bell this had been for many hundred years.
26:26	N:N	N:N	It had chimed for weddings and for christenings; it had tolled for funerals, and to give the alarm in case of fire.
27:27	N:N	N:N	With every event in the life of man the bell had made its voice heard.
28:28	H:H	H:H	His mother also told him how the chiming of that old bell had once filled her heart with joy and confidence, and that in the midst of the sweet tones her child had been given to her.
29:29	N:N	N:N	And the boy gazed on the large, old bell with the deepest interest.
30:30	H:N	H:H	He bowed his head over it and kissed it, old, thrown away, and cracked as it was, and standing there amidst the grass and nettles.
31:31	N:N	H:N	The boy never forgot what his mother told him, and the tones of the old bell reverberated in his heart till he reached manhood.
32:32	N:N	N:H	In such sweet remembrance was the old bell cherished by the boy, who grew up in poverty to be tall and slender, with a freckled complexion and hair almost red; but his eyes were clear and blue as the deep sea, and what was his career to be?
33:33	N:N	N:H	His career was to be good, and his future life enviable.
34:34	N:N	H:H	We find him taking high honors at the military school in the division commanded by the member of a family high in position, and this was an honor, that is to say, good luck.
35:35	N:N	H:H	He wore gaiters, stiff collars, and powdered hair, and by this he was recognized; and, indeed, he might be known by the word of command- "March! halt! front!"
36:36	N:N	N:N	The old church bell had long been quite forgotten, and no one imagined it would ever again be sent to the melting furnace to make it as it was before.
37:37	N:N	N:N	No one could possibly have foretold this.
38:38	N:N	N:N	Equally impossible would it have been to believe that the tones of the old bell still echoed in the heart of the boy from Marbach; or that one day they would ring out loud enough and strong enough to be heard all over the world.
39:39	N:N	N:N	They had already been heard in the narrow space behind the school-wall, even above the deafening sounds of "March! halt! front!"
40:40	N:N	N:N	They had chimed so loudly in the heart of the youngster, that he had sung them to his companions, and their tones resounded to the very borders of the country.
41:41	N:N	N:N	He was not a free scholar in the military school, neither was he provided with clothes or food.
42:42	N:N	N:N	But he had his number, and his own peg; for everything here was ordered like clockwork, which we all know is of the greatest utility- people get on so much better together when their position and duties are understood.
43:43	N:N	N:N	It is by pressure that a jewel is stamped.
44:44	N:N	N:N	The pressure of regularity and discipline here stamped the jewel, which in the future the world so well knew.
45:45	N:N	N:H	In the chief town of the province a great festival was being celebrated.
46:46	N:N	N:H	The light streamed forth from thousands of lamps, and the rockets shot upwards towards the sky, filling the air with showers of colored fiery sparks.
47:47	Sa:Sa	S:S	A record of this bright display will live in the memory of man, for through it the pupil in the military school was in tears and sorrow.
48:48	N:N	S:S	He had dared to attempt to reach foreign territories unnoticed, and must therefore give up fatherland, mother, his dearest friends, all, or sink down into the stream of common life.
49:49	N:N	N:S	The old church bell had still some comfort; it stood in the shelter of the church wall in Marbach, once so elevated, now quite forgotten.
50:50	N:N	N:S	The wind roared around it, and could have readily related the story of its origin and of its sweet chimes, and the wind could also tell of him to whom he had brought fresh air when, in the woods of a neighboring country, he had sunk down exhausted with fatigue, with no other worldly possessions than hope for the future, and a written leaf from "Fiesco."
51:51	N:N	N:N	The wind could have told that his only protector was an artist, who, by reading each leaf to him, made it plain; and that they amused themselves by playing at nine-pins together.
52:52	N:N	N:N	The wind could also describe the pale fugitive, who, for weeks and months, lay in a wretched little road-side inn, where the landlord got drunk and raved, and where the merry-makers had it all their own way.
53:53	N:N	N:N	And he, the pale fugitive, sang of the ideal.
54:54	N:N	N:S	For many heavy days and dark nights the heart must suffer to enable it to endure trial and temptation; yet, amidst it all, would the minstrel sing.
55:55	Sa:Sa	S:S	Dark days and cold nights also passed over the old bell, and it noticed them not; but the bell in the man's heart felt it to be a gloomy time.
56:56	N:N	N:S	What would become of this young man, and what would become of the old bell?
57:57	N:N	N:N	The old bell was, after a time, carried away to a greater distance than any one, even the warder in the bell tower, ever imagined; and the bell in the breast of the young man was heard in countries where his feet had never wandered.
58:58	N:N	N:N	The tones went forth over the wide ocean to every part of the round world.
59:59	N:N	N:N	We will now follow the career of the old bell.
60:60	N:N	N:N	It was, as we have said, carried far away from Marbach and sold as old copper; then sent to Bavaria to be melted down in a furnace.
61:61	N:N	N:N	And then what happened?
62:62	N:N	N:N	In the royal city of Bavaria, many years after the bell had been removed from the tower and melted down, some metal was required for a monument in honor of one of the most celebrated characters which a German people or a German land could produce.
63:63	N:N	N:N	And now we see how wonderfully things are ordered.
64:64	N:N	N:N	Strange things sometimes happen in this world.
65:65	N:N	N:N	In Denmark, in one of those green islands where the foliage of the beech-woods rustles in the wind, and where many Huns' graves may be seen, was another poor boy born.
66:66	N:N	N:N	He wore wooden shoes, and when his father worked in a ship-yard, the boy, wrapped up in an old worn-out shawl, carried his dinner to him every day.
67:67	N:N	H:H	This poor child was now the pride of his country; for the sculptured marble, the work of his hands, had astonished the world.* To him was offered the honor of forming from the clay, a model of the figure of him whose name, "John Christopher Frederick," had been written by his father in the Bible.
68:68	N:N	H:H	The bust was cast in bronze, and part of the metal used for this purpose was the old church bell, whose tones had died away from the memory of those at home and elsewhere.
69:69	N:N	H:H	The metal, glowing with heat, flowed into the mould, and formed the head and bust of the statue which was unveiled in the square in front of the old castle.
70:70	N:N	H:H	The statue represented in living, breathing reality, the form of him who was born in poverty, the boy from Marbach, the pupil of the military school, the fugitive who struggled against poverty and oppression, from the outer world; Germany's great and immortal poet, who sung of Switzerland's deliverer, William Tell, and of the heaven-inspired Maid of Orleans.
71:71	N:N	N:N	* The Danish sculptor Thorwaldsen.
72:72	N:N	H:H	It was a beautiful sunny day; flags were waving from tower and roof in royal Stuttgart, and the church bells were ringing a joyous peal.
73:73	N:N	H:H	One bell was silent; but it was illuminated by the bright sunshine which streamed from the head and bust of the renowned figure, of which it formed a part.
74:74	N:N	H:H	On this day, just one hundred years had passed since the day on which the chiming of the old church bell at Marbach had filled the mother's heart with trust and joy- the day on which her child was born in poverty, and in a humble home; the same who, in after-years, became rich, became the noble woman-hearted poet, a blessing to the world- the glorious, the sublime, the immortal bard, John Christoper Frederick Schiller!
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN a house, with a large courtyard, in a provincial town, at that time of the year in which people say the evenings are growing longer, a family circle were gathered together at their old home.
1:1	N:N	N:N	A lamp burned on the table, although the weather was mild and warm, and the long curtains hung down before the open windows, and without the moon shone brightly in the dark-blue sky.
2:2	N:N	N:N	But they were not talking of the moon, but of a large, old stone that lay below in the courtyard not very far from the kitchen door.
3:3	H:N	H:N	The maids often laid the clean copper saucepans and kitchen vessels on this stone, that they might dry in the sun, and the children were fond of playing on it.
4:4	N:N	N:N	It was, in fact, an old grave-stone.
5:5	N:N	N:N	"Yes," said the master of the house, "I believe the stone came from the graveyard of the old church of the convent which was pulled down, and the pulpit, the monuments, and the grave-stones sold.
6:6	N:N	N:N	My father bought the latter; most of them were cut in two and used for paving-stones, but that one stone was preserved whole, and laid in the courtyard."
7:7	N:N	N:N	"Any one can see that it is a grave-stone," said the eldest of the children; "the representation of an hour-glass and part of the figure of an angel can still be traced, but the inscription beneath is quite worn out, excepting the name 'Preben,' and a large 'S' close by it, and a little farther down the name of 'Martha' can be easily read.
8:8	N:N	N:N	But nothing more, and even that cannot be seen unless it has been raining, or when we have washed the stone."
9:9	Su+:N	+:N	"Dear me! how singular.
10:10	Su+:N	+:+	Why that must be the grave-stone of Preben Schwane and his wife."
11:11	N:N	N:N	The old man who said this looked old enough to be the grandfather of all present in the room.
12:12	N:N	N:N	"Yes," he continued, "these people were among the last who were buried in the churchyard of the old convent.
13:13	N:N	N:N	They were a very worthy old couple, I can remember them well in the days of my boyhood.
14:14	N:N	N:N	Every one knew them, and they were esteemed by all.
15:15	N:N	N:N	They were the oldest residents in the town, and people said they possessed a ton of gold, yet they were always very plainly dressed, in the coarsest stuff, but with linen of the purest whiteness.
16:16	N:H	H:H	Preben and Martha were a fine old couple, and when they both sat on the bench, at the top of the steep stone steps, in front of their house, with the branches of the linden-tree waving above them, and nodded in a gentle, friendly way to passers by, it really made one feel quite happy.
17:17	N:N	H:H	They were very good to the poor; they fed them and clothed them, and in their benevolence there was judgment as well as true Christianity.
18:18	N:N	S:N	The old woman died first; that day is still quite vividly before my eyes.
19:19	N:N	N:N	I was a little boy, and had accompanied my father to the old man's house.
20:20	N:N	N:S	Martha had fallen into the sleep of death just as we arrived there.
21:21	Sa:Sa	S:S	The corpse lay in a bedroom, near to the one in which we sat, and the old man was in great distress and weeping like a child.
22:22	Sa:Sa	S:S	He spoke to my father, and to a few neighbors who were there, of how lonely he should feel now she was gone, and how good and true she, his dead wife, had been during the number of years that they had passed through life together, and how they had become acquainted, and learnt to love each other.
23:23	Su-:Sa	N:S	I was, as I have said, a boy, and only stood by and listened to what the others said; but it filled me with a strange emotion to listen to the old man, and to watch how the color rose in his cheeks as he spoke of the days of their courtship, of how beautiful she was, and how many little tricks he had been guilty of, that he might meet her.
24:24	H:H	H:H	And then he talked of his wedding-day; and his eyes brightened, and he seemed to be carried back, by his words, to that joyful time.
25:25	N:N	N:S	And yet there she was, lying in the next room, dead- an old woman, and he was an old man, speaking of the days of hope, long passed away.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Ah, well, so it is; then I was but a child, and now I am old, as old as Preben Schwane then was.
27:27	N:N	N:N	Time passes away, and all things changed.
28:28	N:N	N:S	I can remember quite well the day on which she was buried, and how Old Preben walked close behind the coffin.
29:29	N:N	N:N	"A few years before this time the old couple had had their grave-stone prepared, with an inscription and their names, but not the date.
30:30	N:N	N:N	In the evening the stone was taken to the churchyard, and laid on the grave.
31:31	N:N	N:N	A year later it was taken up, that Old Preben might be laid by the side of his wife.
32:32	N:N	N:N	They did not leave behind them wealth, they left behind them far less than people had believed they possessed; what there was went to families distantly related to them, of whom, till then, no one had ever heard.
33:33	N:N	N:S	The old house, with its balcony of wickerwork, and the bench at the top of the high steps, under the lime-tree, was considered, by the road-inspectors, too old and rotten to be left standing.
34:34	N:N	S:S	Afterwards, when the same fate befell the convent church, and the graveyard was destroyed, the grave-stone of Preben and Martha, like everything else, was sold to whoever would buy it.
35:35	N:N	N:N	And so it happened that this stone was not cut in two as many others had been, but now lies in the courtyard below, a scouring block for the maids, and a playground for the children.
36:36	N:N	S:S	The paved street now passes over the resting place of Old Preben and his wife; no one thinks of them any more now."
37:37	N:Sa	S:S	And the old man who had spoken of all this shook his head mournfully, and said, "Forgotten!
38:38	Sa:N	S:S	Ah, yes, everything will be forgotten!"
39:39	N:N	N:N	And then the conversation turned on other matters.
40:40	N:N	N:N	But the youngest child in the room, a boy, with large, earnest eyes, mounted upon a chair behind the window curtains, and looked out into the yard, where the moon was pouring a flood of light on the old gravestone,- the stone that had always appeared to him so dull and flat, but which lay there now like a great leaf out of a book of history.
41:41	H:N	H:H	All that the boy had heard of Old Preben and his wife seemed clearly defined on the stone, and as he gazed on it, and glanced at the clear, bright moon shining in the pure air, it was as if the light of God's countenance beamed over His beautiful world.
42:42	Su-:N	-:N	"Forgotten!
43:43	N:N	N:N	Everything will be forgotten!" still echoed through the room, and in the same moment an invisible spirit whispered to the heart of the boy, "Preserve carefully the seed that has been entrusted to thee, that it may grow and thrive.
44:44	N:N	N:N	Guard it well.
45:45	N:N	H:N	Through thee, my child, shall the obliterated inscription on the old, weather-beaten grave-stone go forth to future generations in clear, golden characters.
46:46	H:N	H:N	The old pair shall again wander through the streets arm-in-arm, or sit with their fresh, healthy cheeks on the bench under the lime-tree, and smile and nod at rich and poor.
47:47	N:N	H:N	The seed of this hour shall ripen in the course of years into a beautiful poem.
48:48	N:N	H:H	The beautiful and the good are never forgotten, they live always in story or in song."
0:0	N:N	N:N	A VERY old house stood once in a street with several that were quite new and clean.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The date of its erection had been carved on one of the beams, and surrounded by scrolls formed of tulips and hop-tendrils; by this date it could be seen that the old house was nearly three hundred years old.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Verses too were written over the windows in old-fashioned letters, and grotesque faces, curiously carved, grinned at you from under the cornices.
3:3	N:N	N:N	One story projected a long way over the other, and under the roof ran a leaden gutter, with a dragon's head at the end.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The rain was intended to pour out at the dragon's mouth, but it ran out of his body instead, for there was a hole in the gutter.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The other houses in the street were new and well built, with large window panes and smooth walls.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Any one could see they had nothing to do with the old house.
7:7	N:N	N:D	Perhaps they thought, "How long will that heap of rubbish remain here to be a disgrace to the whole street.
8:8	N:N	N:D	The parapet projects so far forward that no one can see out of our windows what is going on in that direction.
9:9	N:N	N:D	The stairs are as broad as the staircase of a castle, and as steep as if they led to a church-tower.
10:10	N:N	N:D	The iron railing looks like the gate of a cemetery, and there are brass knobs upon it.
11:11	N:N	N:D	It is really too ridiculous."
12:12	N:N	N:N	Opposite to the old house were more nice new houses, which had just the same opinion as their neighbors.
13:13	N:H	N:H	At the window of one of them sat a little boy with fresh rosy cheeks, and clear sparkling eyes, who was very fond of the old house, in sunshine or in moonlight.
14:14	N:N	N:H	He would sit and look at the wall from which the plaster had in some places fallen off, and fancy all sorts of scenes which had been in former times.
15:15	N:N	N:H	How the street must have looked when the houses had all gable roofs, open staircases, and gutters with dragons at the spout.
16:16	N:N	N:H	He could even see soldiers walking about with halberds.
17:17	H:N	H:H	Certainly it was a very good house to look at for amusement.
18:18	N:N	N:N	An old man lived in it, who wore knee-breeches, a coat with large brass buttons, and a wig, which any one could see was a real wig.
19:19	N:N	N:N	Every morning an old man came to clean the rooms, and to wait upon him, otherwise the old man in the knee-breeches would have been quite alone in the house.
20:20	N:N	N:H	Sometimes he came to one of the windows and looked out; then the little boy nodded to him, and the old man nodded back again, till they became acquainted, and were friends, although they had never spoken to each other; but that was of no consequence.
21:21	N:Sa	N:S	The little boy one day heard his parents say, "The old man opposite is very well off, but is terribly lonely."
22:22	N:N	N:N	The next Sunday morning the little boy wrapped something in a piece of paper and took it to the door of the old house, and said to the attendant who waited upon the old man, "Will you please give this from me to the gentleman who lives here; I have two tin soldiers, and this is one of them, and he shall have it, because I know he is terribly lonely."
23:23	H:H	H:H	And the old attendant nodded and looked very pleased, and then he carried the tin soldier into the house.
24:24	N:N	N:N	Afterwards he was sent over to ask the little boy if he would not like to pay a visit himself.
25:25	N:N	N:N	His parents gave him permission, and so it was that he gained admission to the old house.
26:26	N:N	N:N	The brassy knobs on the railings shone more brightly than ever, as if they had been polished on account of his visit; and on the door were carved trumpeters standing in tulips, and it seemed as if they were blowing with all their might, their cheeks were so puffed out.
27:27	N:N	H:N	"Tanta-ra-ra, the little boy is coming; Tanta-ra-ra, the little boy is coming."
28:28	N:N	N:N	Then the door opened.
29:29	N:N	N:N	All round the hall hung old portraits of knights in armor, and ladies in silk gowns; and the armor rattled, and the silk dresses rustled.
30:30	N:N	N:N	Then came a staircase which went up a long way, and then came down a little way and led to a balcony, which was in a very ruinous state.
31:31	N:N	N:S	There were large holes and long cracks, out of which grew grass and leaves, indeed the whole balcony, the courtyard, and the walls were so overgrown with green that they looked like a garden.
32:32	N:N	N:N	In the balcony stood flower-pots, on which were heads having asses' ears, but the flowers in them grew just as they pleased.
33:33	N:N	N:N	In one pot pinks were growing all over the sides, at least the green leaves were shooting forth stalk and stem, and saying as plainly as they could speak, "The air has fanned me, the sun has kissed me, and I am promised a little flower for next Sunday- really for next Sunday."
34:34	N:N	N:N	Then they entered a room in which the walls were covered with leather, and the leather had golden flowers stamped upon it.
35:35	N:N	N:N	"Gilding will fade in damp weather, To endure, there is nothing like leather,"
36:36	N:N	N:N	said the walls.
37:37	N:N	N:N	Chairs handsomely carved, with elbows on each side, and with very high backs, stood in the room, and as they creaked they seemed to say, "Sit down.
38:38	D:N	N:N	Oh dear, how I am creaking.
39:39	N:N	N:N	I shall certainly have the gout like the old cupboard.
40:40	D:N	N:N	Gout in my back, ugh."
41:41	N:N	N:N	And then the little boy entered the room where the old man sat.
42:42	H:N	H:H	"Thank you for the tin soldier my little friend," said the old man, "and thank you also for coming to see me."
43:43	H:N	H:H	"Thanks, thanks," or "Creak, creak," said all the furniture.
44:44	N:N	N:H	There was so much that the pieces of furniture stood in each other's way to get a sight of the little boy.
45:45	N:N	N:H	On the wall near the centre of the room hung the picture of a beautiful lady, young and gay, dressed in the fashion of the olden times, with powdered hair, and a full, stiff skirt.
46:46	N:N	N:N	She said neither "thanks" nor "creak," but she looked down upon the little boy with her mild eyes; and then he said to the old man, "Where did you get that picture?"
47:47	N:N	N:N	"From the shop opposite," he replied.
48:48	N:N	N:N	"Many portraits hang there that none seem to trouble themselves about.
49:49	N:N	N:N	The persons they represent have been dead and buried long since.
50:50	N:N	N:N	But I knew this lady many years ago, and she has been dead nearly half a century."
51:51	N:N	N:N	Under a glass beneath the picture hung a nosegay of withered flowers, which were no doubt half a century old too, at least they appeared so.
52:52	N:N	N:N	And the pendulum of the old clock went to and fro, and the hands turned round; and as time passed on, everything in the room grew older, but no one seemed to notice it.
53:53	N:N	N:S	"They say at home," said the little boy, "that you are very lonely."
54:54	H:H	H:H	"Oh," replied the old man, "I have pleasant thoughts of all that has passed, recalled by memory; and now you are come to visit me, and that is very pleasant."
55:55	N:N	N:H	Then he took from the book-case, a book full of pictures representing long processions of wonderful coaches, such as are never seen at the present time.
56:56	N:N	N:H	Soldiers like the knave of clubs, and citizens with waving banners.
57:57	N:N	N:H	The tailors had a flag with a pair of scissors supported by two lions, and on the shoemakers' flag there were not boots, but an eagle with two heads, for the shoemakers must have everything arranged so that they can say, "This is a pair."
58:58	N:N	N:H	What a picture-book it was; and then the old man went into another room to fetch apples and nuts.
59:59	H:N	H:H	It was very pleasant, certainly, to be in that old house.
60:60	Sa:Sa	S:S	"I cannot endure it," said the tin soldier, who stood on a shelf, "it is so lonely and dull here.
61:61	Sa:N	S:S	I have been accustomed to live in a family, and I cannot get used to this life.
62:62	Sa:N	S:S	I cannot bear it.
63:63	N:N	S:S	The whole day is long enough, but the evening is longer.
64:64	N:H	S:H	It is not here like it was in your house opposite, when your father and mother talked so cheerfully together, while you and all the dear children made such a delightful noise.
65:65	Sa:N	S:S	No, it is all lonely in the old man's house.
66:66	N:N	N:S	Do you think he gets any kisses?
67:67	N:N	N:S	Do you think he ever has friendly looks, or a Christmas tree?
68:68	N:N	N:S	He will have nothing now but the grave.
69:69	Sa:N	S:S	Oh, I cannot bear it."
70:70	N:N	N:N	"You must not look only on the sorrowful side," said the little boy; "I think everything in this house is beautiful, and all the old pleasant thoughts come back here to pay visits."
71:71	Sa:N	S:S	"Ah, but I never see any, and I don't know them," said the tin soldier, "and I cannot bear it."
72:72	N:N	N:N	"You must bear it," said the little boy.
73:73	H:H	H:H	Then the old man came back with a pleasant face; and brought with him beautiful preserved fruits, as well as apples and nuts; and the little boy thought no more of the tin soldier.
74:74	H:H	H:H	How happy and delighted the little boy was; and after he returned home, and while days and weeks passed, a great deal of nodding took place from one house to the other, and then the little boy went to pay another visit.
75:75	N:N	H:H	The carved trumpeters blew "Tanta-ra-ra. There is the little boy.
76:76	N:N	H:H	Tanta-ra-ra."
77:77	N:N	N:H	The swords and armor on the old knight's pictures rattled.
78:78	N:N	N:N	The silk dresses rustled, the leather repeated its rhyme, and the old chairs had the gout in their backs, and cried, "Creak;" it was all exactly like the first time; for in that house, one day and one hour were just like another.
79:79	Sa:Sa	S:S	"I cannot bear it any longer," said the tin soldier; "I have wept tears of tin, it is so melancholy here.
80:80	Sa:N	S:S	Let me go to the wars, and lose an arm or a leg, that would be some change; I cannot bear it.
81:81	N:N	N:S	Now I know what it is to have visits from one's old recollections, and all they bring with them.
82:82	N:Sa	N:S	I have had visits from mine, and you may believe me it is not altogether pleasant.
83:83	N:N	S:S	I was very nearly jumping from the shelf.
84:84	N:N	N:S	I saw you all in your house opposite, as if you were really present.
85:85	N:N	N:S	It was Sunday morning, and you children stood round the table, singing the hymn that you sing every morning.
86:86	N:N	N:S	You were standing quietly, with your hands folded, and your father and mother.
87:87	N:N	N:S	You were standing quietly, with your hands folded, and your father and mother were looking just as serious, when the door opened, and your little sister Maria, who is not two years old, was brought into the room.
88:88	N:N	N:N	You know she always dances when she hears music and singing of any sort; so she began to dance immediately, although she ought not to have done so, but she could not get into the right time because the tune was so slow; so she stood first on one leg and then on the other, and bent her head very low, but it would not suit the music.
89:89	H:H	N:H	You all stood looking very grave, although it was very difficult to do so, but I laughed so to myself that I fell down from the table, and got a bruise, which is there still; I know it was not right to laugh.
90:90	N:N	N:N	So all this, and everything else that I have seen, keeps running in my head, and these must be the old recollections that bring so many thoughts with them.
91:91	N:N	N:N	Tell me whether you still sing on Sundays, and tell me about your little sister Maria, and how my old comrade is, the other tin soldier.
92:92	Sa:N	S:S	Ah, really he must be very happy; I cannot endure this life."
93:93	N:N	N:N	"You are given away," said the little boy; "you must stay.
94:94	N:N	N:N	Don't you see that?"
95:95	N:N	N:N	Then the old man came in, with a box containing many curious things to show him.
96:96	N:N	N:N	Rouge-pots, scent-boxes, and old cards, so large and so richly gilded, that none are ever seen like them in these days.
97:97	N:N	N:N	And there were smaller boxes to look at, and the piano was opened, and inside the lid were painted landscapes.
98:98	N:N	N:N	But when the old man played, the piano sounded quite out of tune.
99:99	H:H	H:H	Then he looked at the picture he had bought at the broker's, and his eyes sparkled brightly as he nodded at it, and said, "Ah, she could sing that tune."
100:100	Sa:N	S:N	"I will go to the wars!
101:101	Sa:N	S:S	I will go to the wars!" cried the tin soldier as loud as he could, and threw himself down on the floor.
102:102	N:N	N:N	Where could he have fallen?
103:103	N:N	N:S	The old man searched, and the little boy searched, but he was gone, and could not be found.
104:104	N:N	N:N	"I shall find him again," said the old man, but he did not find him.
105:105	N:N	N:N	The boards of the floor were open and full of holes.
106:106	N:N	N:S	The tin soldier had fallen through a crack between the boards, and lay there now in an open grave.
107:107	N:N	N:N	The day went by, and the little boy returned home; the week passed, and many more weeks.
108:108	N:N	N:N	It was winter, and the windows were quite frozen, so the little boy was obliged to breathe on the panes, and rub a hole to peep through at the old house.
109:109	N:N	N:N	Snow drifts were lying in all the scrolls and on the inscriptions, and the steps were covered with snow as if no one were at home.
110:110	Su-:N	-:S	And indeed nobody was home, for the old man was dead.
111:111	N:N	S:S	In the evening, a hearse stopped at the door, and the old man in his coffin was placed in it.
112:112	Sa:N	S:S	He was to be taken to the country to be buried there in his own grave; so they carried him away; no one followed him, for all his friends were dead; and the little boy kissed his hand to the coffin as the hearse moved away with it.
113:113	N:N	N:S	A few days after, there was an auction at the old house, and from his window the little boy saw the people carrying away the pictures of old knights and ladies, the flower-pots with the long ears, the old chairs, and the cup-boards.
114:114	N:N	N:S	Some were taken one way, some another.
115:115	N:N	N:S	Her portrait, which had been bought at the picture dealer's, went back again to his shop, and there it remained, for no one seemed to know her, or to care for the old picture.
116:116	N:N	N:D	In the spring; they began to pull the house itself down; people called it complete rubbish.
117:117	N:N	N:N	From the street could be seen the room in which the walls were covered with leather, ragged and torn, and the green in the balcony hung straggling over the beams; they pulled it down quickly, for it looked ready to fall, and at last it was cleared away altogether.
118:118	N:N	N:D	"What a good riddance," said the neighbors' houses.
119:119	N:N	N:N	Very shortly, a fine new house was built farther back from the road; it had lofty windows and smooth walls, but in front, on the spot where the old house really stood, a little garden was planted, and wild vines grew up over the neighboring walls; in front of the garden were large iron railings and a great gate, which looked very stately.
120:120	N:N	N:N	People used to stop and peep through the railings.
121:121	H:H	H:H	The sparrows assembled in dozens upon the wild vines, and chattered all together as loud as they could, but not about the old house; none of them could remember it, for many years had passed by, so many indeed, that the little boy was now a man, and a really good man too, and his parents were very proud of him.
122:122	H:N	H:H	He was just married, and had come, with his young wife, to reside in the new house with the garden in front of it, and now he stood there by her side while she planted a field flower that she thought very pretty.
123:123	N:N	H:H	She was planting it herself with her little hands, and pressing down the earth with her fingers.
124:124	Su-:N	-:-	"Oh dear, what was that?" she exclaimed, as something pricked her.
125:125	N:N	N:N	Out of the soft earth something was sticking up.
126:126	Su+:N	+:+	It was- only think!- it was really the tin soldier, the very same which had been lost up in the old man's room, and had been hidden among old wood and rubbish for a long time, till it sunk into the earth, where it must have been for many years.
127:127	N:N	N:N	And the young wife wiped the soldier, first with a green leaf, and then with her fine pocket-handkerchief, that smelt of such beautiful perfume.
128:128	H:N	H:H	And the tin soldier felt as if he was recovering from a fainting fit.
129:129	H:H	H:H	"Let me see him," said the young man, and then he smiled and shook his head, and said, "It can scarcely be the same, but it reminds me of something that happened to one of my tin soldiers when I was a little boy."
130:130	H:Sa	H:S	And then he told his wife about the old house and the old man, and of the tin soldier which he had sent across, because he thought the old man was lonely; and he related the story so clearly that tears came into the eyes of the young wife for the old house and the old man.
131:131	N:N	H:N	"It is very likely that this is really the same soldier," said she, and I will take care of him, and always remember what you have told me; but some day you must show me the old man's grave."
132:132	N:N	N:S	"I don't know where it is," he replied; "no one knows.
133:133	N:N	N:S	All his friends are dead; no one took care of him, and I was only a little boy."
134:134	Sa:N	N:S	"Oh, how dreadfully lonely he must have been," said she.
135:135	H:H	H:H	"Yes, terribly lonely," cried the tin soldier; "still it is delightful not to be forgotten."
136:136	N:N	N:N	"Delightful indeed," cried a voice quite near to them; no one but the tin soldier saw that it came from a rag of the leather which hung in tatters; it had lost all its gilding, and looked like wet earth, but it had an opinion, and it spoke it thus:-
137:137	N:N	N:N	"Gilding will fade in damp weather, To endure, there is nothing like leather."
138:138	N:N	N:N	But the tin soldier did not believe any such thing.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IT is winter-time.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The earth wears a snowy garment, and looks like marble hewn out of the rock; the air is bright and clear; the wind is sharp as a well-tempered sword, and the trees stand like branches of white coral or blooming almond twigs, and here it is keen as on the lofty Alps.
2:2	N:N	H:N	The night is splendid in the gleam of the Northern Lights, and in the glitter of innumerable twinkling stars.
3:3	N:N	H:H	But we sit in the warm room, by the hot stove, and talk about the old times.
4:4	N:N	N:N	And we listen to this story: By the open sea was a giant's grave; and on the grave-mound sat at midnight the spirit of the buried hero, who had been a king.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The golden circlet gleamed on his brow, his hair fluttered in the wind, and he was clad in steel and iron.
6:6	Sa:Sa	S:S	He bent his head mournfully, and sighed in deep sorrow, as an unquiet spirit might sigh.
7:7	N:N	N:N	And a ship came sailing by.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Presently the sailors lowered the anchor and landed.
9:9	N:N	N:N	Among them was a singer, and he approached the royal spirit, and said, "Why mournest thou, and wherefore dost thou suffer thus?"
10:10	Sa:N	S:S	And the dead man answered, "No one has sung the deeds of my life; they are dead and forgotten.
11:11	Sa:Sa	S:S	Song doth not carry them forth over the lands, nor into the hearts of men; therefore I have no rest and no peace."
12:12	N:N	S:S	And he spoke of his works, and of his warlike deeds, which his contemporaries had known, but which had not been sung, because there was no singer among his companions.
13:13	N:N	N:H	Then the old bard struck the strings of his harp, and sang of the youthful courage of the hero, of the strength of the man, and of the greatness of his good deeds.
14:14	H:H	H:H	Then the face of the dead one gleamed like the margin of the cloud in the moonlight.
15:15	N:H	H:H	Gladly and of good courage, the form arose in splendor and in majesty, and vanished like the glancing of the northern light.
16:16	N:N	H:N	Nought was to be seen but the green turfy mound, with the stones on which no Runic record has been graven; but at the last sound of the harp there soared over the hill, as though he had fluttered from the harp, a little bird, a charming singing-bird, with ringing voice of the thrush, with the moving voice pathos of the human heart, with a voice that told of home, like the voice that is heard by the bird of passage.
17:17	N:N	N:N	The singing-bird soared away, over mountain and valley, over field and wood- he was the Bird of Popular Song, who never dies.
18:18	N:N	N:N	We hear his song- we hear it now in the room while the white bees are swarming without, and the storm clutches the windows.
19:19	N:N	N:H	The bird sings not alone the requiem of heroes; he sings also sweet gentle songs of love, so many and so warm, of Northern fidelity and truth.
20:20	N:N	N:H	He has stories in words and in tones; he has proverbs and snatches of proverbs; songs which, like Runes laid under a dead man's tongue, force him to speak; and thus Popular Song tells of the land of his birth.
21:21	N:N	N:H	In the old heathen days, in the times of the Vikings, the popular speech was enshrined in the harp of the bard.
22:22	N:N	N:N	In the days of knightly castles, when the strongest fist held the scales of justice, when only might was right, and a peasant and a dog were of equal importance, where did the Bird of Song find shelter and protection?
23:23	N:N	N:H	Neither violence nor stupidity gave him a thought.
24:24	N:N	N:N	But in the gabled window of the knightly castle, the lady of the castle sat with the parchment roll before her, and wrote down the old recollections in song and legend, while near her stood the old woman from the wood, and the travelling peddler who went wandering through the country.
25:25	N:N	N:N	As these told their tales, there fluttered around them, with twittering and song, the Bird of Popular Song, who never dies so long as the earth has a hill upon which his foot may rest.
26:26	N:N	N:N	And now he looks in upon us and sings.
27:27	N:N	N:N	Without are the night and the snow-storm.
28:28	N:N	N:H	He lays the Runes beneath our tongues, and we know the land of our home.
29:29	N:N	N:H	Heaven speaks to us in our native tongue, in the voice of the Bird of Popular Song.
30:30	N:N	H:H	The old remembrances awake, the faded colors glow with a fresh lustre, and story and song pour us a blessed draught which lifts up our minds and our thoughts, so that the evening becomes as a Christmas festival.
31:31	N:N	N:H	The snow-flakes chase each other, the ice cracks, the storm rules without, for he has the might, he is lord- but not the LORD OF ALL.
32:32	N:N	N:N	It is winter time.
33:33	N:N	N:N	The wind is sharp as a two-edged sword, the snow-flakes chase each other; it seems as though it had been snowing for days and weeks, and the snow lies like a great mountain over the whole town, like a heavy dream of the winter night.
34:34	N:N	N:N	Everything on the earth is hidden away, only the golden cross of the church, the symbol of faith, arises over the snow grave, and gleams in the blue air and in the bright sunshine.
35:35	N:H	N:H	And over the buried town fly the birds of heaven, the small and the great; they twitter and they sing as best they may, each bird with his beak.
36:36	N:N	N:H	First comes the band of sparrows: they pipe at every trifle in the streets and lanes, in the nests and the houses; they have stories to tell about the front buildings and the back buildings.
37:37	H:N	H:H	"We know the buried town," they say; "everything living in it is piep! piep! piep!"
38:38	N:N	N:N	The black ravens and crows flew on over the white snow.
39:39	N:N	N:N	"Grub, grub!" they cried.
40:40	N:N	N:N	"There's something to be got down there; something to swallow, and that's most important.
41:41	N:N	N:N	That's the opinion of most of them down there, and the opinion is goo-goo-good!"
42:42	N:N	N:N	The wild swans come flying on whirring pinions, and sing of the noble and the great, that will still sprout in the hearts of men, down in the town which is resting beneath its snowy veil.
43:43	H:N	H:H	No death is there- life reigns yonder; we hear it on the notes that swell onward like the tones of the church organ, which seize us like sounds from the elf-hill, like the songs of Ossian, like the rushing swoop of the wandering spirits' wings.
44:44	N:N	H:H	What harmony!
45:45	N:N	H:H	That harmony speaks to our hearts, and lifts up our souls!
46:46	N:N	H:H	It is the Bird of Popular Song whom we hear.
47:47	N:N	H:H	And at this moment the warm breath of heaven blows down from the sky.
48:48	N:N	H:H	There are gaps in the snowy mountains, the sun shines into the clefts; spring is coming, the birds are returning, and new races are coming with the same home sounds in their hearts.
49:49	N:N	H:H	Hear the story of the year: "The night of the snow-storm, the heavy dream of the winter night, all shall be dissolved, all shall rise again in the beauteous notes of the Bird of Popular Song, who never dies!"
0:0	N:N	N:N	A DUCK once arrived from Portugal, but there were some who said she came from Spain, which is almost the same thing.
1:1	N:N	N:N	At all events, she was called the "Portuguese," and she laid eggs, was killed, and cooked, and there was an end of her.
2:2	N:N	N:N	But the ducklings which crept forth from the eggs were also called "Portuguese," and about that there may be some question.
3:3	N:N	N:N	But of all the family one only remained in the duckyard, which may be called a farmyard, as the chickens were admitted, and the cock strutted about in a very hostile manner.
4:4	A:A	N:A	"He annoys me with his loud crowing," said the Portuguese duck; "but, still, he's a handsome bird, there's no denying that, although he's not a drake.
5:5	N:N	N:N	He ought to moderate his voice, like those little birds who are singing in the lime-trees over there in our neighbor's garden, but that is an art only acquired in polite society.
6:6	H:H	H:H	How sweetly they sing there; it is quite a pleasure to listen to them!
7:7	N:N	H:N	I call it Portuguese singing.
8:8	N:N	N:N	If I had only such a little singing-bird, I'd be kind and good as a mother to him, for it's in my nature, in my Portuguese blood."
9:9	N:N	N:N	While she was speaking, one of the little singing-birds came tumbling head over heels from the roof into the yard.
10:10	N:N	N:N	The cat was after him, but he had escaped from her with a broken wing, and so came tumbling into the yard.
11:11	D:N	D:N	"That's just like the cat, she's a villain," said the Portuguese duck.
12:12	N:N	N:N	"I remember her ways when I had children of my own.
13:13	D:N	D:N	How can such a creature be allowed to live, and wander about upon the roofs.
14:14	N:N	N:N	I don't think they allow such things in Portugal."
15:15	N:Sa	N:S	She pitied the little singing-bird, and so did all the other ducks who were not Portuguese.
16:16	N:Sa	N:S	"Poor little creature!" they said, one after another, as they came up.
17:17	N:N	N:N	"We can't sing, certainly; but we have a sounding-board, or something of the kind, within us; we can feel that, though we don't talk about it."
18:18	N:N	N:N	"But I can talk," said the Portuguese duck; "and I'll do something for the little fellow; it's my duty;" and she stepped into the water-trough, and beat her wings upon the water so strongly that the bird was nearly drowned by a shower-bath; but the duck meant it kindly.
19:19	N:N	N:N	"That is a good deed," she said; "I hope the others will take example by it."
20:20	H:N	H:N	"Tweet, tweet!" said the little bird, for one of his wings being broken, he found it difficult to shake himself; but he quite understood that the bath was meant kindly, and he said, "You are very kind-hearted, madam;" but he did not wish for a second bath.
21:21	N:H	N:H	"I have never thought about my heart," replied the Portuguese duck, "but I know that I love all my fellow-creatures, except the cat, and nobody can expect me to love her, for she ate up two of my ducklings.
22:22	N:N	N:N	But pray make yourself at home; it is easy to make one's self comfortable.
23:23	N:N	N:N	I am myself from a foreign country, as you may see by my feathery dress.
24:24	N:N	N:N	My drake is a native of these parts; he's not of my race; but I am not proud on that account.
25:25	N:N	N:N	If any one here can understand you, I may say positively I am that person."
26:26	N:N	N:N	"She's quite full of 'Portulak,'" said a little common duck, who was witty.
27:27	N:N	N:N	All the common ducks considered the word "Portulak" a good joke, for it sounded like Portugal.
28:28	N:N	N:N	They nudged each other, and said, "Quack! that was witty!"
29:29	N:N	N:N	Then the other ducks began to notice the little bird.
30:30	N:N	N:N	"The Portuguese had certainly a great flow of language," they said to the little bird.
31:31	N:N	N:N	"For our part we don't care to fill our beaks with such long words, but we sympathize with you quite as much.
32:32	N:N	N:N	If we don't do anything else, we can walk about with you everywhere, and we think that is the best thing we can do."
33:33	N:N	H:N	"You have a lovely voice," said one of the eldest ducks; "it must be great satisfaction to you to be able to give so much pleasure as you do.
34:34	N:N	N:N	I am certainly no judge of your singing so I keep my beak shut, which is better than talking nonsense, as others do."
35:35	D:N	D:N	"Don't plague him so, interposed the Portuguese duck; "he requires rest and nursing.
36:36	N:N	N:N	My little singing-bird do you wish me to prepare another bath for you?"
37:37	Su-:N	N:N	"Oh, no! no! pray let me dry," implored the little bird.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"The water-cure is the only remedy for me, when I am not well," said the Portuguese.
39:39	H:N	H:N	"Amusement, too, is very beneficial.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The fowls from the neighborhood will soon be here to pay you a visit.
41:41	N:N	N:N	There are two Cochin Chinese amongst them; they wear feathers on their legs, and are well educated.
42:42	N:N	N:N	They have been brought from a great distance, and consequently I treat them with greater respect than I do the others."
43:43	N:N	N:N	Then the fowls arrived, and the cock was polite enough to-day to keep from being rude.
44:44	N:N	N:N	"You are a real songster," he said, "you do as much with your little voice as it is possible to do; but there requires more noise and shrillness in any one who wishes it to be known who he is."
45:45	H:N	H:N	The two Chinese were quite enchanted with the appearance of the singing-bird.
46:46	N:N	H:N	His feathers had been much ruffled by his bath, so that he seemed to them quite like a tiny Chinese fowl.
47:47	H:N	H:N	"He's charming," they said to each other, and began a conversation with him in whispers, using the most aristocratic Chinese dialect: "We are of the same race as yourself," they said.
48:48	N:N	N:N	"The ducks, even the Portuguese, are all aquatic birds, as you must have noticed.
49:49	N:N	N:N	You do not know us yet,- very few know us, or give themselves the trouble to make our acquaintance, not even any of the fowls, though we are born to occupy a higher grade in society than most of them.
50:50	N:N	N:N	But that does not disturb us, we quietly go on in our own way among the rest, whose ideas are certainly not ours; for we look at the bright side of things, and only speak what is good, although that is sometimes very difficult to find where none exists.
51:51	N:N	N:N	Except ourselves and the cock there is not one in the yard who can be called talented or polite.
52:52	D:N	D:N	It cannot even be said of the ducks, and we warn you, little bird, not to trust that one yonder, with the short tail feathers, for she is cunning; that curiously marked one, with the crooked stripes on her wings, is a mischief-maker, and never lets any one have the last word, though she is always in the wrong.
53:53	D:N	D:N	That fat duck yonder speaks evil of every one, and that is against our principles.
54:54	N:N	N:N	If we have nothing good to tell, we close our beaks.
55:55	N:N	N:N	The Portuguese is the only one who has had any education, and with whom we can associate, but she is passionate, and talks too much about 'Portugal.'"
56:56	N:A	D:A	"I wonder what those two Chinese are whispering about," whispered one duck to another; "they are always doing it, and it annoys me.
57:57	N:N	N:N	We never speak to them."
58:58	N:N	N:N	Now the drake came up, and he thought the little singing-bird was a sparrow.
59:59	N:N	N:N	"Well, I don't understand the difference," he said; "it appears to me all the same.
60:60	N:N	N:N	He's only a plaything, and if people will have playthings, why let them, I say."
61:61	N:N	N:N	"Don't take any notice of what he says," whispered the Portuguese; "he's very well in matters of business, and with him business is placed before everything.
62:62	N:N	N:N	But now I shall lie down and have a little rest.
63:63	N:N	N:N	It is a duty we owe to ourselves that we may be nice and fat when we come to be embalmed with sage and onions and apples."
64:64	N:H	N:H	So she laid herself down in the sun and winked with one eye; she had a very comfortable place, and felt so comfortable that she fell asleep.
65:65	N:N	N:N	The little singing-bird busied himself for some time with his broken wing, and at last he lay down, too, quite close to his protectress.
66:66	H:N	H:N	The sun shone warm and bright, and he found out that it was a very good place.
67:67	N:N	N:N	But the fowls of the neighborhood were all awake, and, to tell the truth, they had paid a visit to the duckyard, simply and solely to find food for themselves.
68:68	N:N	N:N	The Chinese were the first to leave, and the other fowls soon followed them.
69:69	N:D	N:D	The witty little duck said of the Portuguese, that the old lady was getting quite a "doting ducky," All the other ducks laughed at this.
70:70	N:N	N:D	"Doting ducky," they whispered.
71:71	N:N	H:N	"Oh, that's too 'witty!'"
72:72	N:H	H:H	And then they repeated the former joke about "Portulak," and declared it was most amusing.
73:73	N:N	N:N	Then they all lay down to have a nap.
74:74	N:N	N:N	They had been lying asleep for some time, when suddenly something was thrown into the yard for them to eat.
75:75	N:N	N:N	It came down with such a bang, that the whole company started up and clapped their wings.
76:76	Su+:N	+:N	The Portuguese awoke too, and rushed over to the other side: in so doing she trod upon the little singing-bird.
77:77	Sa:A	N:A	"Tweet," he cried; "you trod very hard upon me, madam."
78:78	A:A	A:A	"Well, then, why do you lie in my way?" she retorted, "you must not be so touchy.
79:79	D:A	D:A	I have nerves of my own, but I do not cry 'tweet.'"
80:80	Sa:F	S:F	"Don't be angry," said the little bird; "the 'tweet' slipped out of my beak unawares."
81:81	N:N	N:N	The Portuguese did not listen to him, but began eating as fast as she could, and made a good meal.
82:82	N:H	N:H	When she had finished, she lay down again, and the little bird, who wished to be amiable, began to sing,-
83:83	N:N	H:N	"Chirp and twitter, The dew-drops glitter, In the hours of sunny spring, I'll sing my best, Till I go to rest, With my head behind my wing."
84:84	A:N	N:N	"Now I want rest after my dinner," said the Portuguese; "you must conform to the rules of the house while you are here.
85:85	N:N	N:N	I want to sleep now."
86:86	Su-:A	-:A	The little bird was quite taken aback, for he meant it kindly.
87:87	A:A	A:A	When madam awoke afterwards, there he stood before her with a little corn he had found, and laid it at her feet; but as she had not slept well, she was naturally in a bad temper.
88:88	A:N	A:N	"Give that to a chicken," she said, "and don't be always standing in my way."
89:89	Sa:F	S:F	"Why are you angry with me?" replied the little singing-bird, "what have I done?"
90:90	N:A	A:A	"Done!" repeated the Portuguese duck, "your mode of expressing yourself is not very polite.
91:91	N:N	A:N	I must call your attention to that fact."
92:92	Sa:N	S:F	"It was sunshine here yesterday," said the little bird, "but to-day it is cloudy and the air is close."
93:93	N:N	N:A	"You know very little about the weather, I fancy," she retorted, "the day is not over yet.
94:94	D:A	D:A	Don't stand there, looking so stupid."
95:95	N:F	S:F	"But you are looking at me just as the wicked eyes looked when I fell into the yard yesterday."
96:96	A:A	A:A	"Impertinent creature!" exclaimed the Portuguese duck: "would you compare me with the cat- that beast of prey?
97:97	D:N	D:A	There's not a drop of malicious blood in me.
98:98	N:N	D:A	I've taken your part, and now I'll teach you better manners."
99:99	A:N	A:A	So saying, she made a bite at the little singing-bird's head, and he fell dead on the ground.
100:100	N:N	N:N	"Now whatever is the meaning of this?"
101:101	D:N	D:N	"she said; "could he not bear even such a little peck as I gave him?
102:102	D:N	D:N	Then certainly he was not made for this world.
103:103	N:N	N:N	I've been like a mother to him, I know that, for I've a good heart."
104:104	N:N	N:N	Then the cock from the neighboring yard stuck his head in, and crowed with steam-engine power.
105:105	A:A	A:A	"You'll kill me with your crowing," she cried, "it's all your fault.
106:106	N:A	D:A	He's lost his life, and I'm very near losing mine."
107:107	N:N	N:N	"There's not much of him lying there," observed the cock.
108:108	N:N	N:N	"Speak of him with respect," said the Portuguese duck, "for he had manners and education, and he could sing.
109:109	N:N	N:H	He was affectionate and gentle, and that is as rare a quality in animals as in those who call themselves human beings."
110:110	N:N	N:N	Then all the ducks came crowding round the little dead bird.
111:111	N:N	N:N	Ducks have strong passions, whether they feel envy or pity.
112:112	N:Sa	S:S	There was nothing to envy here, so they all showed a great deal of pity, even the two Chinese.
113:113	Sa:Sa	S:S	"We shall never have another singing-bird again amongst us; he was almost a Chinese," they whispered, and then they wept with such a noisy, clucking sound, that all the other fowls clucked too, but the ducks went about with redder eyes afterwards.
114:114	N:N	S:S	"We have hearts of our own," they said, "nobody can deny that."
115:115	N:N	N:N	"Hearts!" repeated the Portuguese, "indeed you have, almost as tender as the ducks in Portugal."
116:116	N:N	N:N	"Let us think of getting something to satisfy our hunger," said the drake, that's the most important business.
117:117	N:N	N:N	If one of our toys is broken, why we have plenty more."
0:0	N:N	N:N	A PRIZE, or rather two prizes, a great one and a small one, had been awarded for the greatest swiftness in running,- not in a single race, but for the whole year.
1:1	H:N	N:N	"I obtained the first prize," said the hare.
2:2	D:D	D:D	"Justice must still be carried out, even when one has relations and good friends among the prize committee; but that the snail should have received the second prize, I consider almost an insult to myself" "No," said the fence-rail, who had been a witness at the distribution of prizes; "there should be some consideration for industry and perseverance.
3:3	N:N	N:N	I have heard many respectable people say so, and I can quite understand it.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The snail certainly took half a year to get over the threshold of the door; but he injured himself, and broke his collar-bone by the haste he made.
5:5	N:N	N:N	He gave himself up entirely to the race, and ran with his house on his back, which was all, of course, very praiseworthy; and therefore he obtained the second prize."
6:6	N:N	N:N	"I think I ought to have had some consideration too," said the swallow.
7:7	H:N	N:N	"I should imagine no one can be swifter in soaring and flight than I am; and how far I have been! far, far away."
8:8	N:N	N:A	"Yes, that is your misfortune," said the fence-rail; "you are so fickle, so unsettled; you must always be travelling about into foreign lands when the cold commences here.
9:9	D:N	N:A	You have no love of fatherland in you.
10:10	N:N	N:A	There can be no consideration for you."
11:11	N:N	N:N	"But now, if I have been lying the whole winter in the moor," said the swallow, "and suppose I slept the whole time, would that be taken into account?"
12:12	N:N	N:N	"Bring a certificate from the old moor-hen," said he, "that you have slept away half your time in fatherland; then you will be treated with some consideration."
13:13	A:N	N:N	"I deserved the first prize, and not the second," said the snail.
14:14	D:N	D:A	"I know so much, at least, that the hare only ran from cowardice, and because he thought there was danger in delay.
15:15	N:N	N:S	I, on the other hand, made running the business of my life, and have become a cripple in the service.
16:16	N:N	N:A	If any one had a first prize, it ought to have been myself.
17:17	D:A	D:A	But I do not understand chattering and boasting; on the contrary, I despise it."
18:18	D:D	D:D	And the snail spat at them with contempt.
19:19	N:N	N:N	"I am able to affirm with word of oath, that each prize- at least, those for which I voted- was given with just and proper consideration," said the old boundary post in the wood, who was a member of the committee of judges.
20:20	N:N	N:N	"I always act with due order, consideration, and calculation.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Seven times have I already had the honor to be present at the distribution of the prizes, and to vote; but to-day is the first time I have been able to carry out my will.
22:22	N:N	N:N	I always reckon the first prize by going through the alphabet from the beginning, and the second by going through from the end.
23:23	N:N	N:N	Be so kind as to give me your attention, and I will explain to you how I reckon from the beginning.
24:24	N:N	N:N	The eighth letter from A is H, and there we have H for hare; therefore I awarded to the hare the first prize.
25:25	N:N	N:N	The eighth letter from the end of the alphabet is S, and therefore the snail received the second prize.
26:26	N:N	N:N	Next year, the letter I will have its turn for the first prize, and the letter R for the second."
27:27	N:N	N:N	"I should really have voted for myself," said the mule, "if I had not been one of the judges on the committee.
28:28	N:N	N:N	Not only the rapidity with which advance is made, but every other quality should have due consideration; as, for instance, how much weight a candidate is able to draw; but I have not brought this quality forward now, nor the sagacity of the hare in his flight, nor the cunning with which he suddenly springs aside and doubles, to lead people on a false track, thinking he has concealed himself.
29:29	N:N	N:N	No; there is something else on which more stress should be laid, and which ought not be left unnoticed.
30:30	N:N	N:N	I mean that which mankind call the beautiful.
31:31	N:N	N:N	It is on the beautiful that I particularly fix my eyes.
32:32	F:H	H:H	I observed the well-grown ears of the hare; it is a pleasure to me to observe how long they are.
33:33	H:N	H:H	It seemed as if I saw myself again in the days of my childhood; and so I voted for the hare."
34:34	N:N	N:N	"Buz," said the fly; "there, I'm not going to make a long speech; but I wish to say something about hares.
35:35	N:N	N:N	I have really overtaken more than one hare, when I have been seated on the engine in front of a railway train.
36:36	N:N	N:N	I often do so.
37:37	N:N	N:N	One can then so easily judge of one's own swiftness.
38:38	N:N	N:N	Not long ago, I crushed the hind legs of a young hare.
39:39	N:N	N:N	He had been running a long time before the engine; he had no idea that I was travelling there.
40:40	N:N	N:N	At last he had to stop in his career, and the engine ran over his hind legs, and crushed them; for I set upon it.
41:41	N:N	N:N	I left him lying there, and rode on farther.
42:42	H:N	N:N	I call that conquering him; but I do not want the prize."
43:43	N:N	N:N	"It really seems to me," thought the wild rose, though she did not express her opinion aloud- it is not in her nature to do so,- though it would have been quite as well if she had; "it certainly seems to me that the sunbeam ought to have had the honor of receiving the first prize.
44:44	N:N	N:N	The sunbeam flies in a few minutes along the immeasurable path from the sun to us.
45:45	N:N	H:H	It arrives in such strength, that all nature awakes to loveliness and beauty; we roses blush and exhale fragrance in its presence.
46:46	D:N	N:N	Our worshipful judges don't appear to have noticed this at all.
47:47	D:N	D:N	Were I the sunbeam, I would give each one of them a sun stroke; but that would only make them mad, and they are mad enough already.
48:48	N:N	N:H	I only hope," continued the rose, "that peace may reign in the wood.
49:49	H:N	H:H	It is glorious to bloom, to be fragrant, and to live; to live in story and in song.
50:50	N:N	N:H	The sunbeam will outlive us all."
51:51	N:N	N:N	"What is the first prize?" asked the earthworm, who had overslept the time, and only now came up.
52:52	N:N	N:N	"It contains a free admission to a cabbage-garden," replied the mule.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"I proposed that as one of the prizes.
54:54	N:N	N:H	The hare most decidedly must have it; and I, as an active and thoughtful member of the committee, took especial care that the prize should be one of advantage to him; so now he is provided for.
55:55	N:N	N:H	The snail can now sit on the fence, and lick up moss and sunshine.
56:56	N:N	N:H	He has also been appointed one of the first judges of swiftness in racing.
57:57	N:N	N:H	It is worth much to know that one of the numbers is a man of talent in the thing men call a 'committee.'
58:58	N:N	N:H	I must say I expect much in the future; we have already made such a good beginning."
0:0	N:N	N:N	ONCE upon a time there was little girl, pretty and dainty.
1:1	N:N	N:N	But in summer time she was obliged to go barefooted because she was poor, and in winter she had to wear large wooden shoes, so that her little instep grew quite red.
2:2	N:N	N:N	In the middle of the village lived an old shoemaker's wife; she sat down and made, as well as she could, a pair of little shoes out of some old pieces of red cloth.
3:3	N:N	N:+	They were clumsy, but she meant well, for they were intended for the little girl, whose name was Karen.
4:4	N:N	N:-	Karen received the shoes and wore them for the first time on the day of her mother's funeral.
5:5	N:N	S:S	They were certainly not suitable for mourning; but she had no others, and so she put her bare feet into them and walked behind the humble coffin.
6:6	Sa:N	S:N	Just then a large old carriage came by, and in it sat an old lady; she looked at the little girl, and taking pity on her, said to the clergyman, "Look here, if you will give me the little girl, I will take care of her."
7:7	D:N	D:-	Karen believed that this was all on account of the red shoes, but the old lady thought them hideous, and so they were burnt.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Karen herself was dressed very neatly and cleanly; she was taught to read and to sew, and people said that she was pretty.
9:9	N:N	N:N	But the mirror told her, "You are more than pretty- you are beautiful."
10:10	N:N	N:N	One day the Queen was travelling through that part of the country, and had her little daughter, who was a princess, with her.
11:11	N:N	N:N	All the people, amongst them Karen too, streamed towards the castle, where the little princess, in fine white clothes, stood before the window and allowed herself to be stared at.
12:12	N:N	N:N	She wore neither a train nor a golden crown, but beautiful red morocco shoes; they were indeed much finer than those which the shoemaker's wife had sewn for little Karen.
13:13	N:N	N:N	There is really nothing in the world that can be compared to red shoes!
14:14	N:N	N:N	Karen was now old enough to be confirmed; she received some new clothes, and she was also to have some new shoes.
15:15	N:N	N:N	The rich shoemaker in the town took the measure of her little foot in his own room, in which there stood great glass cases full of pretty shoes and white slippers.
16:16	N:N	N:N	It all looked very lovely, but the old lady could not see very well, and therefore did not get much pleasure out of it.
17:17	N:N	N:N	Amongst the shoes stood a pair of red ones, like those which the princess had worn.
18:18	N:N	N:N	How beautiful they were! and the shoemaker said that they had been made for a count's daughter, but that they had not fitted her.
19:19	N:N	N:N	"I suppose they are of shiny leather?" asked the old lady.
20:20	N:N	N:N	"They shine so."
21:21	H:N	N:N	"Yes, they do shine," said Karen.
22:22	N:N	N:N	They fitted her, and were bought.
23:23	N:N	N:N	But the old lady knew nothing of their being red, for she would never have allowed Karen to be confirmed in red shoes, as she was now to be.
24:24	N:N	-:N	Everybody looked at her feet, and the whole of the way from the church door to the choir it seemed to her as if even the ancient figures on the monuments, in their stiff collars and long black robes, had their eyes fixed on her red shoes.
25:25	N:N	-:N	It was only of these that she thought when the clergyman laid his hand upon her head and spoke of the holy baptism, of the covenant with God, and told her that she was now to be a grown-up Christian.
26:26	N:N	N:N	The organ pealed forth solemnly, and the sweet children's voices mingled with that of their old leader; but Karen thought only of her red shoes.
27:27	N:N	N:N	In the afternoon the old lady heard from everybody that Karen had worn red shoes.
28:28	Su-:N	-:A	She said that it was a shocking thing to do, that it was very improper, and that Karen was always to go to church in future in black shoes, even if they were old.
29:29	N:N	N:N	On the following Sunday there was Communion.
30:30	N:N	N:N	Karen looked first at the black shoes, then at the red ones- looked at the red ones again, and put them on.
31:31	N:N	N:N	The sun was shining gloriously, so Karen and the old lady went along the footpath through the corn, where it was rather dusty.
32:32	N:N	N:N	At the church door stood an old crippled soldier leaning on a crutch; he had a wonderfully long beard, more red than white, and he bowed down to the ground and asked the old lady whether he might wipe her shoes.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Then Karen put out her little foot too.
34:34	Su+:N	+:-	"Dear me, what pretty dancing-shoes!" said the soldier.
35:35	H:N	H:N	"Sit fast, when you dance," said he, addressing the shoes, and slapping the soles with his hand.
36:36	N:N	N:N	The old lady gave the soldier some money and then went with Karen into the church.
37:37	N:N	N:N	And all the people inside looked at Karen's red shoes, and all the figures gazed at them; when Karen knelt before the altar and put the golden goblet to her mouth, she thought only of the red shoes.
38:38	N:N	N:N	It seemed to her as though they were swimming about in the goblet, and she forgot to sing the psalm, forgot to say the "Lord's Prayer."
39:39	N:N	N:N	Now every one came out of church, and the old lady stepped into her carriage.
40:40	N:N	N:-	But just as Karen was lifting up her foot to get in too, the old soldier said: "Dear me, what pretty dancing shoes!" and Karen could not help it, she was obliged to dance a few steps; and when she had once begun, her legs continued to dance.
41:41	N:N	+:-	It seemed as if the shoes had got power over them.
42:42	N:N	+:-	She danced round the church corner, for she could not stop; the coachman had to run after her and seize her.
43:43	N:N	-:-	He lifted her into the carriage, but her feet continued to dance, so that she kicked the good old lady violently.
44:44	N:N	N:-	At last they took off her shoes, and her legs were at rest.
45:45	N:N	N:-	At home the shoes were put into the cupboard, but Karen could not help looking at them.
46:46	N:N	N:-	Now the old lady fell ill, and it was said that she would not rise from her bed again.
47:47	N:N	N:-	She had to be nursed and waited upon, and this was no one's duty more than Karen's.
48:48	N:N	N:N	But there was a grand ball in the town, and Karen was invited.
49:49	N:N	N:-	She looked at the red shoes, saying to herself that there was no sin in doing that; she put the red shoes on, thinking there was no harm in that either; and then she went to the ball; and commenced to dance.
50:50	N:N	-:-	But when she wanted to go to the right, the shoes danced to the left, and when she wanted to dance up the room, the shoes danced down the room, down the stairs through the street, and out through the gates of the town.
51:51	N:N	-:-	She danced, and was obliged to dance, far out into the dark wood.
52:52	N:N	N:-	Suddenly something shone up among the trees, and she believed it was the moon, for it was a face.
53:53	Su+:N	+:F	But it was the old soldier with the red beard; he sat there nodding his head and said: "Dear me, what pretty dancing shoes!"
54:54	F:F	F:F	She was frightened, and wanted to throw the red shoes away; but they stuck fast.
55:55	N:N	F:F	She tore off her stockings, but the shoes had grown fast to her feet.
56:56	N:N	F:F	She danced and was obliged to go on dancing over field and meadow, in rain and sunshine, by night and by day- but by night it was most horrible.
57:57	N:N	F:-	She danced out into the open churchyard; but the dead there did not dance.
58:58	N:N	F:-	They had something better to do than that.
59:59	N:N	F:-	She wanted to sit down on the pauper's grave where the bitter fern grows; but for her there was neither peace nor rest.
60:60	N:N	F:-	And as she danced past the open church door she saw an angel there in long white robes, with wings reaching from his shoulders down to the earth; his face was stern and grave, and in his hand he held a broad shining sword.
61:61	D:N	D:-	"Dance you shall," said he, "dance in your red shoes till you are pale and cold, till your skin shrivels up and you are a skeleton!
62:62	D:N	D:F	Dance you shall, from door to door, and where proud and wicked children live you shall knock, so that they may hear you and fear you!
63:63	D:N	D:A	Dance you shall, dance- !"
64:64	F:F	F:F	"Mercy!" cried Karen.
65:65	N:N	F:N	But she did not hear what the angel answered, for the shoes carried her through the gate into the fields, along highways and byways, and unceasingly she had to dance.
66:66	N:N	N:-	One morning she danced past a door that she knew well; they were singing a psalm inside, and a coffin was being carried out covered with flowers.
67:67	N:N	F:-	Then she knew that she was forsaken by every one and damned by the angel of God.
68:68	N:N	N:-	She danced, and was obliged to go on dancing through the dark night.
69:69	N:N	N:-	The shoes bore her away over thorns and stumps till she was all torn and bleeding; she danced away over the heath to a lonely little house.
70:70	N:N	N:-	Here, she knew, lived the executioner; and she tapped with her finger at the window and said: "Come out, come out!
71:71	N:N	N:-	I cannot come in, for I must dance."
72:72	N:N	N:-	And the executioner said: "I don't suppose you know who I am.
73:73	N:N	N:N	I strike off the heads of the wicked, and I notice that my axe is tingling to do so."
74:74	F:N	F:-	"Don't cut off my head!" said Karen, "for then I could not repent of my sin.
75:75	N:N	F:-	But cut off my feet with the red shoes."
76:76	N:N	N:-	And then she confessed all her sin, and the executioner struck off her feet with the red shoes; but the shoes danced away with the little feet across the field into the deep forest.
77:77	H:N	H:N	And he carved her a pair of wooden feet and some crutches, and taught her a psalm which is always sung by sinners; she kissed the hand that guided the axe, and went away over the heath.
78:78	N:N	N:N	"Now, I have suffered enough for the red shoes," she said; "I will go to church, so that people can see me."
79:79	F:F	F:F	And she went quickly up to the church-door; but when she came there, the red shoes were dancing before her, and she was frightened, and turned back.
80:80	Sa:Sa	S:S	During the whole week she was sad and wept many bitter tears, but when Sunday came again she said: "Now I have suffered and striven enough.
81:81	N:N	N:-	I believe I am quite as good as many of those who sit in church and give themselves airs."
82:82	N:N	N:-	And so she went boldly on; but she had not got farther than the churchyard gate when she saw the red shoes dancing along before her.
83:83	F:F	F:F	Then she became terrified, and turned back and repented right heartily of her sin.
84:84	N:N	F:N	She went to the parsonage, and begged that she might be taken into service there.
85:85	N:N	N:N	She would be industrious, she said, and do everything that she could; she did not mind about the wages as long as she had a roof over her, and was with good people.
86:86	N:N	N:N	The pastor's wife had pity on her, and took her into service.
87:87	N:N	N:N	And she was industrious and thoughtful.
88:88	N:N	N:N	She sat quiet and listened when the pastor read aloud from the Bible in the evening.
89:89	N:N	N:N	All the children liked her very much, but when they spoke about dress and grandeur and beauty she would shake her head.
90:90	Sa:Sa	S:S	On the following Sunday they all went to church, and she was asked whether she wished to go too; but, with tears in her eyes, she looked sadly at her crutches.
91:91	N:N	S:S	And then the others went to hear God's Word, but she went alone into her little room; this was only large enough to hold the bed and a chair.
92:92	Sa:Sa	S:S	Here she sat down with her hymn-book, and as she was reading it with a pious mind, the wind carried the notes of the organ over to her from the church, and in tears she lifted up her face and said: "O God! help me!"
93:93	N:N	N:-	Then the sun shone so brightly, and right before her stood an angel of God in white robes; it was the same one whom she had seen that night at the church-door.
94:94	N:N	H:N	He no longer carried the sharp sword, but a beautiful green branch, full of roses; with this he touched the ceiling, which rose up very high, and where he had touched it there shone a golden star.
95:95	N:N	H:N	He touched the walls, which opened wide apart, and she saw the organ which was pealing forth; she saw the pictures of the old pastors and their wives, and the congregation sitting in the polished chairs and singing from their hymn-books.
96:96	N:N	H:H	The church itself had come to the poor girl in her narrow room, or the room had gone to the church.
97:97	N:N	H:H	She sat in the pew with the rest of the pastor's household, and when they had finished the hymn and looked up, they nodded and said, "It was right of you to come, Karen."
98:98	H:N	H:N	"It was mercy," said she.
99:99	N:N	H:N	The organ played and the children's voices in the choir sounded soft and lovely.
100:100	H:H	-:H	The bright warm sunshine streamed through the window into the pew where Karen sat, and her heart became so filled with it, so filled with peace and joy, that it broke.
101:101	H:N	H:N	Her soul flew on the sunbeams to Heaven, and no one was there who asked after the Red Shoes.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE was once a fine gentleman who possessed among other things a boot-jack and a hair-brush; but he had also the finest shirt-collar in the world, and of this collar we are about to hear a story.
1:1	N:N	N:N	The collar had become so old that he began to think about getting married; and one day he happened to find himself in the same washing-tub as a garter.
2:2	H:Su+	H:+	"Upon my word," said the shirt-collar, "I have never seen anything so slim and delicate, so neat and soft before.
3:3	N:N	N:+	May I venture to ask your name?"
4:4	N:N	N:N	"I shall not tell you," replied the garter.
5:5	N:N	N:N	"Where do you reside when you are at home?" asked the shirt-collar.
6:6	N:F	N:F	But the garter was naturally shy, and did not know how to answer such a question.
7:7	N:N	N:N	"I presume you are a girdle," said the shirt-collar, "a sort of under girdle.
8:8	H:N	H:N	I see that you are useful, as well as ornamental, my little lady."
9:9	D:N	D:A	"You must not speak to me," said the garter; "I do not think I have given you any encouragement to do so."
10:10	N:N	N:H	"Oh, when any one is as beautiful as you are," said the shirt-collar, "is not that encouragement enough?"
11:11	A:N	A:A	"Get away; don't come so near me," said the garter, "you appear to me quite like a man."
12:12	N:H	N:H	"I am a fine gentleman certainly," said the shirt-collar, "I possess a boot-jack and a hair-brush."
13:13	N:N	N:N	This was not true, for these things belonged to his master; but he was a boaster.
14:14	D:N	D:F	"Don't come so near me," said the garter; "I am not accustomed to it."
15:15	H:N	N:A	"Affectation!" said the shirt-collar.
16:16	N:N	N:N	Then they were taken out of the wash-tub, starched, and hung over a chair in the sunshine, and then laid on the ironing-board.
17:17	N:N	N:N	And now came the glowing iron.
18:18	N:H	N:H	"Mistress widow," said the shirt-collar, "little mistress widow, I feel quite warm.
19:19	N:N	N:H	I am changing, I am losing all my creases.
20:20	D:N	D:H	You are burning a hole in me.
21:21	D:N	D:H	Ugh!
22:22	N:N	N:N	I propose to you."
23:23	D:N	D:A	"You old rag," said the flat-iron, driving proudly over the collar, for she fancied herself a steam-engine, which rolls over the railway and draws carriages.
24:24	D:N	D:A	"You old rag!" said she.
25:25	N:N	N:N	The edges of the shirt-collar were a little frayed, so the scissors were brought to cut them smooth.
26:26	H:N	H:N	"Oh!" exclaimed the shirt-collar, "what a first-rate dancer you would make; you can stretch out your leg so well.
27:27	H:N	H:N	I never saw anything so charming; I am sure no human being could do the same."
28:28	N:N	N:N	"I should think not," replied the scissors.
29:29	N:N	N:N	"You ought to be a countess," said the shirt collar; "but all I possess consists of a fine gentleman, a boot-jack, and a comb.
30:30	N:Sa	N:S	I wish I had an estate for your sake."
31:31	A:A	A:A	"What! is he going to propose to me?" said the scissors, and she became so angry that she cut too sharply into the shirt collar, and it was obliged to be thrown by as useless.
32:32	N:N	N:N	"I shall be obliged to propose to the hair-brush," thought the shirt collar; so he remarked one day, "It is wonderful what beautiful hair you have, my little lady.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Have you never thought of being engaged?"
34:34	N:N	N:N	"You might know I should think of it," answered the hair brush; "I am engaged to the boot-jack."
35:35	Su-:N	-:S	"Engaged!" cried the shirt collar, "now there is no one left to propose to;" and then he pretended to despise all love-making.
36:36	N:N	N:S	A long time passed, and the shirt collar was taken in a bag to the paper-mill.
37:37	N:N	N:S	Here was a large company of rags, the fine ones lying by themselves, separated from the coarser, as it ought to be.
38:38	N:N	N:N	They had all many things to relate, especially the shirt collar, who was a terrible boaster.
39:39	N:N	N:N	"I have had an immense number of love affairs," said the shirt collar, "no one left me any peace.
40:40	N:N	N:N	It is true I was a very fine gentleman; quite stuck up.
41:41	N:N	N:N	I had a boot-jack and a brush that I never used.
42:42	N:N	N:N	You should have seen me then, when I was turned down.
43:43	N:N	N:N	I shall never forget my first love; she was a girdle, so charming, and fine, and soft, and she threw herself into a washing tub for my sake.
44:44	N:N	N:N	There was a widow too, who was warmly in love with me, but I left her alone, and she became quite black.
45:45	N:N	N:N	The next was a first-rate dancer; she gave me the wound from which I still suffer, she was so passionate.
46:46	N:N	N:N	Even my own hair-brush was in love with me, and lost all her hair through neglected love.
47:47	N:Sa	N:S	Yes, I have had great experience of this kind, but my greatest grief was for the garter- the girdle I meant to say- that jumped into the wash-tub.
48:48	N:Sa	N:S	I have a great deal on my conscience, and it is really time I should be turned into white paper."
49:49	N:N	N:S	And the shirt collar came to this at last.
50:50	N:N	N:S	All the rags were made into white paper, and the shirt collar became the very identical piece of paper which we now see, and on which this story is printed.
51:51	N:N	N:S	It happened as a punishment to him, for having boasted so shockingly of things which were not true.
52:52	N:N	N:N	And this is a warning to us, to be careful how we act, for we may some day find ourselves in the rag-bag, to be turned into white paper, on which our whole history may be written, even its most secret actions.
53:53	N:N	N:N	And it would not be pleasant to have to run about the world in the form of a piece of paper, telling everything we have done, like the boasting shirt collar.
0:0	H:N	H:N	"IT is so delightfully cold," said the Snow Man, "that it makes my whole body crackle.
1:1	H:N	H:N	This is just the kind of wind to blow life into one.
2:2	Su-:N	-:N	How that great red thing up there is staring at me!"
3:3	N:N	N:N	He meant the sun, who was just setting.
4:4	N:N	N:N	"It shall not make me wink.
5:5	N:N	N:N	I shall manage to keep the pieces."
6:6	N:N	N:N	He had two triangular pieces of tile in his head, instead of eyes; his mouth was made of an old broken rake, and was, of course, furnished with teeth.
7:7	N:H	N:H	He had been brought into existence amidst the joyous shouts of boys, the jingling of sleigh-bells, and the slashing of whips.
8:8	N:N	N:N	The sun went down, and the full moon rose, large, round, and clear, shining in the deep blue.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"There it comes again, from the other side," said the Snow Man, who supposed the sun was showing himself once more.
10:10	H:N	H:N	"Ah, I have cured him of staring, though; now he may hang up there, and shine, that I may see myself.
11:11	Sa:N	N:N	If I only knew how to manage to move away from this place,- I should so like to move.
12:12	Sa:N	S:N	If I could, I would slide along yonder on the ice, as I have seen the boys do; but I don't understand how; I don't even know how to run."
13:13	A:N	N:N	"Away, away," barked the old yard-dog.
14:14	N:N	N:N	He was quite hoarse, and could not pronounce "Bow wow" properly.
15:15	N:N	N:N	He had once been an indoor dog, and lay by the fire, and he had been hoarse ever since.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"The sun will make you run some day.
17:17	N:N	N:N	I saw him, last winter, make your predecessor run, and his predecessor before him.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Away, away, they all have to go."
19:19	N:N	N:N	"I don't understand you, comrade," said the Snow Man.
20:20	N:N	N:N	"Is that thing up yonder to teach me to run?
21:21	N:N	N:N	I saw it running itself a little while ago, and now it has come creeping up from the other side.
22:22	D:N	D:N	"You know nothing at all," replied the yard-dog; "but then, you've only lately been patched up.
23:23	N:N	D:N	What you see yonder is the moon, and the one before it was the sun.
24:24	N:N	N:N	It will come again to-morrow, and most likely teach you to run down into the ditch by the well; for I think the weather is going to change.
25:25	N:N	N:N	I can feel such pricks and stabs in my left leg; I am sure there is going to be a change."
26:26	F:F	N:F	"I don't understand him," said the Snow Man to himself; "but I have a feeling that he is talking of something very disagreeable.
27:27	F:N	F:N	The one who stared so just now, and whom he calls the sun, is not my friend; I can feel that too."
28:28	N:N	N:N	"Away, away," barked the yard-dog, and then he turned round three times, and crept into his kennel to sleep.
29:29	N:N	N:N	There was really a change in the weather.
30:30	N:N	N:N	Towards morning, a thick fog covered the whole country round, and a keen wind arose, so that the cold seemed to freeze one's bones; but when the sun rose, the sight was splendid.
31:31	N:N	H:N	Trees and bushes were covered with hoar frost, and looked like a forest of white coral; while on every twig glittered frozen dew-drops.
32:32	N:N	H:N	The many delicate forms concealed in summer by luxuriant foliage, were now clearly defined, and looked like glittering lace-work.
33:33	N:N	H:N	From every twig glistened a white radiance.
34:34	N:N	H:N	The birch, waving in the wind, looked full of life, like trees in summer; and its appearance was wondrously beautiful.
35:35	N:N	H:N	And where the sun shone, how everything glittered and sparkled, as if diamond dust had been strewn about; while the snowy carpet of the earth appeared as if covered with diamonds, from which countless lights gleamed, whiter than even the snow itself.
36:36	H:N	H:N	"This is really beautiful," said a young girl, who had come into the garden with a young man; and they both stood still near the Snow Man, and contemplated the glittering scene.
37:37	H:H	H:H	"Summer cannot show a more beautiful sight," she exclaimed, while her eyes sparkled.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"And we can't have such a fellow as this in the summer time," replied the young man, pointing to the Snow Man; "he is capital."
39:39	H:H	H:H	The girl laughed, and nodded at the Snow Man, and then tripped away over the snow with her friend.
40:40	N:N	N:N	The snow creaked and crackled beneath her feet, as if she had been treading on starch.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Who are these two?" asked the Snow Man of the yard-dog.
42:42	N:N	N:N	"You have been here longer than I have; do you know them?"
43:43	N:N	N:N	"Of course I know them," replied the yard-dog; "she has stroked my back many times, and he has given me a bone of meat.
44:44	N:N	N:N	I never bite those two."
45:45	N:N	N:N	"But what are they?" asked the Snow Man.
46:46	N:N	N:N	"They are lovers," he replied; "they will go and live in the same kennel by-and-by, and gnaw at the same bone.
47:47	N:N	N:N	Away, away!"
48:48	N:N	N:N	"Are they the same kind of beings as you and I?" asked the Snow Man.
49:49	D:N	D:N	"Well, they belong to the same master," retorted the yard-dog.
50:50	D:N	D:N	"Certainly people who were only born yesterday know very little.
51:51	D:N	D:N	I can see that in you.
52:52	N:N	D:N	I have age and experience.
53:53	N:N	N:N	I know every one here in the house, and I know there was once a time when I did not lie out here in the cold, fastened to a chain.
54:54	N:N	N:N	Away, away!"
55:55	A:F	N:H	"The cold is delightful," said the Snow Man; "but do tell me tell me; only you must not clank your chain so; for it jars all through me when you do that."
56:56	N:N	N:N	"Away, away!" barked the yard-dog; "I'll tell you; they said I was a pretty little fellow once; then I used to lie in a velvet-covered chair, up at the master's house, and sit in the mistress's lap.
57:57	N:N	N:N	They used to kiss my nose, and wipe my paws with an embroidered handkerchief, and I was called 'Ami, dear Ami, sweet Ami.'
58:58	N:N	N:S	But after a while I grew too big for them, and they sent me away to the housekeeper's room; so I came to live on the lower story.
59:59	N:N	N:S	You can look into the room from where you stand, and see where I was master once; for I was indeed master to the housekeeper.
60:60	N:N	N:N	It was certainly a smaller room than those up stairs; but I was more comfortable; for I was not being continually taken hold of and pulled about by the children as I had been.
61:61	N:N	N:N	I received quite as good food, or even better.
62:62	N:N	N:N	I had my own cushion, and there was a stove- it is the finest thing in the world at this season of the year.
63:63	N:N	N:N	I used to go under the stove, and lie down quite beneath it.
64:64	Sa:N	N:N	Ah, I still dream of that stove.
65:65	N:N	N:N	Away, away!"
66:66	N:N	N:N	"Does a stove look beautiful?" asked the Snow Man, "is it at all like me?"
67:67	N:N	N:N	"It is just the reverse of you,' said the dog; "it's as black as a crow, and has a long neck and a brass knob; it eats firewood, so that fire spurts out of its mouth.
68:68	N:N	N:N	We should keep on one side, or under it, to be comfortable.
69:69	N:N	N:N	You can see it through the window, from where you stand."
70:70	N:N	N:N	Then the Snow Man looked, and saw a bright polished thing with a brazen knob, and fire gleaming from the lower part of it.
71:71	Su-:N	-:N	The Snow Man felt quite a strange sensation come over him; it was very odd, he knew not what it meant, and he could not account for it.
72:72	N:N	N:N	But there are people who are not men of snow, who understand what it is.
73:73	N:N	N:N	"'And why did you leave her?" asked the Snow Man, for it seemed to him that the stove must be of the female sex.
74:74	N:N	N:N	"How could you give up such a comfortable place?"
75:75	Sa:N	N:N	"I was obliged," replied the yard-dog.
76:76	Sa:N	S:N	"They turned me out of doors, and chained me up here.
77:77	N:N	N:N	I had bitten the youngest of my master's sons in the leg, because he kicked away the bone I was gnawing.
78:78	Sa:N	S:N	'Bone for bone,' I thought; but they were so angry, and from that time I have been fastened with a chain, and lost my bone.
79:79	N:N	N:N	Don't you hear how hoarse I am.
80:80	N:N	N:N	Away, away!
81:81	Sa:N	S:N	I can't talk any more like other dogs.
82:82	Sa:N	S:N	Away, away, that is the end of it all."
83:83	N:N	N:N	But the Snow Man was no longer listening.
84:84	N:N	N:N	He was looking into the housekeeper's room on the lower storey; where the stove stood on its four iron legs, looking about the same size as the Snow Man himself.
85:85	Su-:N	-:N	"What a strange crackling I feel within me," he said.
86:86	N:N	N:N	"Shall I ever get in there?
87:87	N:N	N:N	It is an innocent wish, and innocent wishes are sure to be fulfilled.
88:88	Su+:N	+:N	I must go in there and lean against her, even if I have to break the window."
89:89	Su-:N	N:N	"You must never go in there," said the yard-dog, "for if you approach the stove, you'll melt away, away."
90:90	N:N	N:N	"I might as well go," said the Snow Man, "for I think I am breaking up as it is."
91:91	N:N	N:N	During the whole day the Snow Man stood looking in through the window, and in the twilight hour the room became still more inviting, for from the stove came a gentle glow, not like the sun or the moon; no, only the bright light which gleams from a stove when it has been well fed.
92:92	N:N	N:N	When the door of the stove was opened, the flames darted out of its mouth; this is customary with all stoves.
93:93	N:N	N:N	The light of the flames fell directly on the face and breast of the Snow Man with a ruddy gleam.
94:94	A:Sa	N:S	"I can endure it no longer," said he; "how beautiful it looks when it stretches out its tongue?"
95:95	N:H	N:H	The night was long, but did not appear so to the Snow Man, who stood there enjoying his own reflections, and crackling with the cold.
96:96	N:N	N:N	In the morning, the window-panes of the housekeeper's room were covered with ice.
97:97	N:N	N:N	They were the most beautiful ice-flowers any Snow Man could desire, but they concealed the stove.
98:98	N:N	N:N	These window-panes would not thaw, and he could see nothing of the stove, which he pictured to himself, as if it had been a lovely human being.
99:99	N:N	N:N	The snow crackled and the wind whistled around him; it was just the kind of frosty weather a Snow Man might thoroughly enjoy.
100:100	A:Sa	A:S	But he did not enjoy it; how, indeed, could he enjoy anything when he was "stove sick?"
101:101	N:N	N:N	"That is terrible disease for a Snow Man," said the yard-dog; "I have suffered from it myself, but I got over it.
102:102	N:N	N:N	Away, away," he barked and then he added, "the weather is going to change."
103:103	N:N	N:N	And the weather did change; it began to thaw.
104:104	N:N	N:N	As the warmth increased, the Snow Man decreased.
105:105	N:N	N:N	He said nothing and made no complaint, which is a sure sign.
106:106	N:N	N:N	One morning he broke, and sunk down altogether; and, behold, where he had stood, something like a broomstick remained sticking up in the ground.
107:107	N:N	N:N	It was the pole round which the boys had built him up.
108:108	H:N	N:N	"Ah, now I understand why he had such a great longing for the stove," said the yard-dog.
109:109	Su+:N	+:N	"Why, there's the shovel that is used for cleaning out the stove, fastened to the pole."
110:110	N:N	+:N	The Snow Man had a stove scraper in his body; that was what moved him so.
111:111	N:N	N:N	"But it's all over now.
112:112	N:N	N:N	Away, away."
113:113	N:N	N:N	And soon the winter passed.
114:114	N:N	N:N	"Away, away," barked the hoarse yard-dog.
115:115	H:N	H:N	But the girls in the house sang,
116:116	N:N	H:N	"Come from your fragrant home, green thyme; Stretch your soft branches, willow-tree; The months are bringing the sweet spring-time, When the lark in the sky sings joyfully.
117:117	N:N	H:N	Come gentle sun, while the cuckoo sings, And I'll mock his note in my wanderings."
118:118	N:N	N:N	And nobody thought any more of the Snow Man.
0:0	N:N	N:N	"I MEAN to be somebody, and do something useful in the world," said the eldest of five brothers.
1:1	N:N	N:N	"I don't care how humble my position is, so that I can only do some good, which will be something.
2:2	N:N	N:N	I intend to be a brickmaker; bricks are always wanted, and I shall be really doing something."
3:3	D:N	D:N	"Your 'something' is not enough for me," said the second brother; "what you talk of doing is nothing at all, it is journeyman's work, or might even be done by a machine.
4:4	D:N	D:N	No!
5:5	N:N	N:N	I should prefer to be a builder at once, there is something real in that.
6:6	N:N	N:N	A man gains a position, he becomes a citizen, has his own sign, his own house of call for his workmen: so I shall be a builder.
7:7	N:N	N:N	If all goes well, in time I shall become a master, and have my own journeymen, and my wife will be treated as a master's wife.
8:8	N:N	N:N	This is what I call something."
9:9	D:N	D:N	"I call it all nothing," said the third; "not in reality any position.
10:10	N:N	N:N	There are many in a town far above a master builder in position.
11:11	N:N	N:N	You may be an upright man, but even as a master you will only be ranked among common men.
12:12	N:N	N:N	I know better what to do than that.
13:13	N:N	N:N	I will be an architect, which will place me among those who possess riches and intellect, and who speculate in art.
14:14	N:N	N:N	I shall certainly have to rise by my own endeavors from a bricklayer's laborer, or as a carpenter's apprentice- a lad wearing a paper cap, although I now wear a silk hat.
15:15	N:N	N:N	I shall have to fetch beer and spirits for the journeymen, and they will call me 'thou,' which will be an insult.
16:16	N:N	N:N	I shall endure it, however, for I shall look upon it all as a mere representation, a masquerade, a mummery, which to-morrow, that is, when I myself as a journeyman, shall have served my time, will vanish, and I shall go my way, and all that has passed will be nothing to me.
17:17	N:N	N:N	Then I shall enter the academy, and get instructed in drawing, and be called an architect.
18:18	N:N	N:N	I may even attain to rank, and have something placed before or after my name, and I shall build as others have done before me.
19:19	N:N	N:N	By this there will be always 'something' to make me remembered, and is not that worth living for?"
20:20	D:N	D:N	"Not in my opinion," said the fourth; "I will never follow the lead of others, and only imitate what they have done.
21:21	N:N	N:N	I will be a genius, and become greater than all of you together.
22:22	N:N	N:N	I will create a new style of building, and introduce a plan for erecting houses suitable to the climate, with material easily obtained in the country, and thus suit national feeling and the developments of the age, besides building a storey for my own genius."
23:23	N:N	N:N	"But supposing the climate and the material are not good for much," said the fifth brother, "that would be very unfortunate for you, and have an influence over your experiments.
24:24	N:N	N:N	Nationality may assert itself until it becomes affectation, and the developments of a century may run wild, as youth often does.
25:25	N:N	N:N	I see clearly that none of you will ever really be anything worth notice, however you may now fancy it.
26:26	N:N	N:N	But do as you like, I shall not imitate you.
27:27	N:N	N:-	I mean to keep clear of all these things, and criticize what you do.
28:28	N:N	N:-	In every action something imperfect may be discovered, something not right, which I shall make it my business to find out and expose; that will be something, I fancy."
29:29	N:N	N:N	And he kept his word, and became a critic.
30:30	Su-:N	N:N	People said of this fifth brother, "There is something very precise about him; he has a good head-piece, but he does nothing."
31:31	N:N	N:N	And on that very account they thought he must be something.
32:32	N:N	N:N	Now, you see, this is a little history which will never end; as long as the world exists, there will always be men like these five brothers.
33:33	N:N	N:N	And what became of them?
34:34	N:N	N:N	Were they each nothing or something?
35:35	N:N	N:N	You shall hear; it is quite a history.
36:36	Su+:N	H:N	The eldest brother, he who fabricated bricks, soon discovered that each brick, when finished, brought him in a small coin, if only a copper one; and many copper pieces, if placed one upon another, can be changed into a shining shilling; and at whatever door a person knocks, who has a number of these in his hands, whether it be the baker's, the butcher's, or the tailor's, the door flies open, and he can get all he wants.
37:37	N:N	N:N	So you see the value of bricks.
38:38	N:N	N:N	Some of the bricks, however, crumbled to pieces, or were broken, but the elder brother found a use for even these.
39:39	N:N	H:N	On the high bank of earth, which formed a dyke on the sea-coast, a poor woman named Margaret wished to build herself a house, so all the imperfect bricks were given to her, and a few whole ones with them; for the eldest brother was a kind-hearted man, although he never achieved anything higher than making bricks.
40:40	N:N	N:-	The poor woman built herself a little house- it was small and narrow, and the window was quite crooked, the door too low, and the straw roof might have been better thatched.
41:41	N:N	H:N	But still it was a shelter, and from within you could look far over the sea, which dashed wildly against the sea-wall on which the little house was built.
42:42	N:N	H:N	The salt waves sprinkled their white foam over it, but it stood firm, and remained long after he who had given the bricks to build it was dead and buried.
43:43	N:N	N:N	The second brother of course knew better how to build than poor Margaret, for he served an apprenticeship to learn it.
44:44	N:N	N:N	When his time was up, he packed up his knapsack, and went on his travels, singing the journeyman's song,-
45:45	H:N	H:N	"While young, I can wander without a care, And build new houses everywhere; Fair and bright are my dreams of home, Always thought of wherever I roam.
46:46	H:N	H:N	Hurrah for a workman's life of glee!
47:47	N:N	H:N	There's a loved one at home who thinks of me; Home and friends I can ne'er forget, And I mean to be a master yet."
48:48	N:N	N:N	And that is what he did.
49:49	N:N	N:N	On his return home, he became a master builder,- built one house after another in the town, till they formed quite a street, which, when finished, became really an ornament to the town.
50:50	N:N	N:+	These houses built a house for him in return, which was to be his own.
51:51	N:N	N:N	But how can houses build a house?
52:52	N:N	N:N	If the houses were asked, they could not answer; but the people would understand, and say, "Certainly the street built his house for him."
53:53	N:N	H:H	It was not very large, and the floor was of lime; but when he danced with his bride on the lime-covered floor, it was to him white and shining, and from every stone in the wall flowers seemed to spring forth and decorate the room as with the richest tapestry.
54:54	H:N	H:H	It was really a pretty house, and in it were a happy pair.
55:55	H:N	H:H	The flag of the corporation fluttered before it, and the journeymen and apprentices shouted "Hurrah."
56:56	N:N	N:N	He had gained his position, he had made himself something, and at last he died, which was "something" too.
57:57	N:N	N:N	Now we come to the architect, the third brother, who had been first a carpenter's apprentice, had worn a cap, and served as an errand boy, but afterwards went to the academy, and risen to be an architect, a high and noble gentleman.
58:58	N:N	N:N	Ah yes, the houses of the new street, which the brother who was a master builder erected, may have built his house for him, but the street received its name from the architect, and the handsomest house in the street became his property.
59:59	N:N	N:N	That was something, and he was "something," for he had a list of titles before and after his name.
60:60	N:N	N:N	His children were called "wellborn," and when he died, his widow was treated as a lady of position, and that was "something."
61:61	N:N	N:N	His name remained always written at the corner of the street, and lived in every one's mouth as its name.
62:62	N:N	N:N	Yes, this also was something."
63:63	N:N	N:N	And what about the genius of the family- the fourth brother- who wanted to invent something new and original?
64:64	N:N	-:-	He tried to build a lofty storey himself, but it fell to pieces, and he fell with it and broke his neck.
65:65	N:N	N:N	However, he had a splendid funeral, with the city flags and music in the procession; flowers were strewn on the pavement, and three orations were spoken over his grave, each one longer than the other.
66:66	N:N	N:N	He would have liked this very much during his life, as well as the poems about him in the papers, for he liked nothing so well as to be talked of.
67:67	N:N	N:N	A monument was also erected over his grave.
68:68	N:N	N:N	It was only another storey over him, but that was "something," Now he was dead, like the three other brothers.
69:69	N:N	N:N	The youngest- the critic- outlived them all, which was quite right for him.
70:70	N:N	N:N	It gave him the opportunity of having the last word, which to him was of great importance.
71:71	N:N	N:N	People always said he had a good head-piece.
72:72	N:N	N:N	At last his hour came, and he died, and arrived at the gates of heaven.
73:73	N:N	+:+	Souls always enter these gates in pairs; so he found himself standing and waiting for admission with another; and who should it be but old dame Margaret, from the house on the dyke!
74:74	D:N	D:N	"It is evidently for the sake of contrast that I and this wretched soul should arrive here exactly at the same time," said the critic.
75:75	N:N	N:N	"Pray who are you, my good woman?" said he; "do you want to get in here too?"
76:76	N:N	N:N	And the old woman curtsied as well as she could; she thought it must be St. Peter himself who spoke to her.
77:77	N:N	N:N	"I am a poor old woman," she said, "without my family.
78:78	N:N	N:N	I am old Margaret, that lived in the house on the dyke."
79:79	N:N	N:N	"Well, and what have you done- what great deed have you performed down below?"
80:80	N:N	N:S	"I have done nothing at all in the world that could give me a claim to have these doors open for me," she said.
81:81	N:N	N:S	"It would be only through mercy that I can be allowed to slip in through the gate."
82:82	A:N	N:N	"In what manner did you leave the world?" he asked, just for the sake of saying something; for it made him feel very weary to stand there and wait.
83:83	Su-:N	-:N	"How I left the world?" she replied; "why, I can scarcely tell you.
84:84	N:N	S:S	During the last years of my life I was sick and miserable, and I was unable to bear creeping out of bed suddenly into the frost and cold.
85:85	N:N	S:N	Last winter was a hard winter, but I have got over it all now.
86:86	N:N	S:N	There were a few mild days, as your honor, no doubt, knows.
87:87	N:N	S:N	The ice lay thickly on the lake, as far one could see.
88:88	N:N	N:N	The people came from the town, and walked upon it, and they say there were dancing and skating upon it, I believe, and a great feasting.
89:89	N:N	N:N	The sound of beautiful music came into my poor little room where I lay.
90:90	N:N	N:N	Towards evening, when the moon rose beautifully, though not yet in her full splendor, I glanced from my bed over the wide sea; and there, just where the sea and sky met, rose a curious white cloud.
91:91	N:F	N:F	I lay looking at the cloud till I observed a little black spot in the middle of it, which gradually grew larger and larger, and then I knew what it meant- I am old and experienced; and although this token is not often seen, I knew it, and a shuddering seized me.
92:92	H:N	N:F	Twice in my life had I seen this same thing, and I knew that there would be an awful storm, with a spring tide, which would overwhelm the poor people who were now out on the ice, drinking, dancing, and making merry.
93:93	N:N	N:F	Young and old, the whole city, were there; who was to warn them, if no one noticed the sign, or knew what it meant as I did?
94:94	F:N	N:N	I was so alarmed, that I felt more strength and life than I had done for some time.
95:95	N:N	N:N	I got out of bed, and reached the window; I could not crawl any farther from weakness and exhaustion; but I managed to open the window.
96:96	H:H	N:H	I saw the people outside running and jumping about on the ice; I saw the beautiful flags waving in the wind; I heard the boys shouting, 'Hurrah!' and the lads and lasses singing, and everything full of merriment and joy.
97:97	N:N	N:F	But there was the white cloud with the black spot hanging over them.
98:98	F:N	N:N	I cried out as loudly as I could, but no one heard me; I was too far off from the people.
99:99	F:N	S:N	Soon would the storm burst, the ice break, and all who were on it be irretrievably lost.
100:100	Sa:N	S:N	They could not hear me, and to go to them was quite out of my power.
101:101	Sa:N	S:F	Oh, if I could only get them safe on land!
102:102	N:N	S:-	Then came the thought, as if from heaven, that I would rather set fire to my bed, and let the house be burnt down, than that so many people should perish miserably.
103:103	N:N	N:-	I got a light, and in a few moments the red flames leaped up as a beacon to them.
104:104	Sa:N	S:-	I escaped fortunately as far as the threshold of the door; but there I fell down and remained: I could go no farther.
105:105	Sa:N	S:-	The flames rushed out towards me, flickered on the window, and rose high above the roof.
106:106	F:N	F:-	The people on the ice became aware of the fire, and ran as fast as possible to help a poor sick woman, who, as they thought, was being burnt to death.
107:107	N:N	F:-	There was not one who did not run.
108:108	N:N	F:N	I heard them coming, and I also at the same time was conscious of a rush of air and a sound like the roar of heavy artillery.
109:109	N:N	F:-	The spring flood was lifting the ice covering, which brake into a thousand pieces.
110:110	H:N	N:N	But the people had reached the sea-wall, where the sparks were flying round.
111:111	H:N	H:N	I had saved them all; but I suppose I could not survive the cold and fright; so I came up here to the gates of paradise.
112:112	N:N	N:N	I am told they are open to poor creatures such as I am, and I have now no house left on earth; but I do not think that will give me a claim to be admitted here."
113:113	N:N	H:N	Then the gates were opened, and an angel led the old woman in.
114:114	N:N	N:N	She had dropped one little straw out of her straw bed, when she set it on fire to save the lives of so many.
115:115	N:N	H:H	It had been changed into the purest gold- into gold that constantly grew and expanded into flowers and fruit of immortal beauty.
116:116	H:N	H:H	"See," said the angel, pointing to the wonderful straw, "this is what the poor woman has brought.
117:117	N:N	N:N	What dost thou bring?
118:118	D:N	D:-	I know thou hast accomplished nothing, not even made a single brick.
119:119	N:N	D:-	Even if thou couldst return, and at least produce so much, very likely, when made, the brick would be useless, unless done with a good will, which is always something.
120:120	D:N	D:-	But thou canst not return to earth, and I can do nothing for thee."
121:121	N:N	N:S	Then the poor soul, the old mother who had lived in the house on the dyke, pleaded for him.
122:122	F:N	N:S	She said, "His brother made all the stone and bricks, and sent them to me to build my poor little dwelling, which was a great deal to do for a poor woman like me.
123:123	F:N	N:N	Could not all these bricks and pieces be as a wall of stone to prevail for him?
124:124	N:N	N:N	It is an act of mercy; he is wanting it now; and here is the very fountain of mercy."
125:125	N:N	N:N	"Then," said the angel, "thy brother, he who has been looked upon as the meanest of you all, he whose honest deeds to thee appeared so humble,- it is he who has sent you this heavenly gift.
126:126	N:N	H:H	Thou shalt not be turned away.
127:127	N:N	N:N	Thou shalt have permission to stand without the gate and reflect, and repent of thy life on earth; but thou shalt not be admitted here until thou hast performed one good deed of repentance, which will indeed for thee be something."
128:128	N:N	N:N	"I could have expressed that better," thought the critic; but he did not say it aloud, which for him was SOMETHING, after all.
0:0	N:N	N:N	ON the last house in a little village the storks had built a nest, and the mother stork sat in it with her four young ones, who stretched out their necks and pointed their black beaks, which had not yet turned red like those of the parent birds.
1:1	N:N	N:N	A little way off, on the edge of the roof, stood the father stork, quite upright and stiff; not liking to be quite idle, he drew up one leg, and stood on the other, so still that it seemed almost as if he were carved in wood.
2:2	H:N	H:N	"It must look very grand," thought he, "for my wife to have a sentry guarding her nest.
3:3	N:N	N:N	They do not know that I am her husband; they will think I have been commanded to stand here, which is quite aristocratic;" and so he continued standing on one leg.
4:4	N:N	N:N	In the street below were a number of children at play, and when they caught sight of the storks, one of the boldest amongst the boys began to sing a song about them, and very soon he was joined by the rest.
5:5	N:N	N:N	These are the words of the song, but each only sang what he could remember of them in his own way.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"Stork, stork, fly away, Stand not on one leg, I pray, See your wife is in her nest, With her little ones at rest.
7:7	N:N	-:-	They will hang one, And fry another; They will shoot a third, And roast his brother."
8:8	F:Su-	F:-	"Just hear what those boys are singing," said the young storks; "they say we shall be hanged and roasted."
9:9	D:N	D:-	"Never mind what they say; you need not listen," said the mother.
10:10	N:N	D:-	"They can do no harm."
11:11	D:N	D:N	But the boys went on singing and pointing at the storks, and mocking at them, excepting one of the boys whose name was Peter; he said it was a shame to make fun of animals, and would not join with them at all.
12:12	N:N	N:N	The mother stork comforted her young ones, and told them not to mind.
13:13	N:N	N:N	"See," she said, "How quiet your father stands, although he is only on one leg."
14:14	F:F	F:F	"But we are very much frightened," said the young storks, and they drew back their heads into the nests.
15:15	N:N	N:-	The next day when the children were playing together, and saw the storks, they sang the song again-
16:16	N:N	-:-	"They will hang one, And roast another."
17:17	F:N	F:F	"Shall we be hanged and roasted?" asked the young storks.
18:18	D:N	D:N	"No, certainly not," said the mother.
19:19	N:N	N:N	"I will teach you to fly, and when you have learnt, we will fly into the meadows, and pay a visit to the frogs, who will bow themselves to us in the water, and cry 'Croak, croak,' and then we shall eat them up; that will be fun."
20:20	N:N	N:N	"And what next?" asked the young storks.
21:21	N:N	N:N	"Then," replied the mother, "all the storks in the country will assemble together, and go through their autumn manoeuvres, so that it is very important for every one to know how to fly properly.
22:22	N:N	N:-	If they do not, the general will thrust them through with his beak, and kill them.
23:23	N:N	N:N	Therefore you must take pains and learn, so as to be ready when the drilling begins."
24:24	Su-:N	-:F	"Then we may be killed after all, as the boys say; and hark! they are singing again."
25:25	D:N	D:N	"Listen to me, and not to them," said the mother stork.
26:26	N:N	N:N	"After the great review is over, we shall fly away to warm countries far from hence, where there are mountains and forests.
27:27	N:N	N:N	To Egypt, where we shall see three-cornered houses built of stone, with pointed tops that reach nearly to the clouds.
28:28	N:N	N:N	They are called Pyramids, and are older than a stork could imagine; and in that country, there is a river that overflows its banks, and then goes back, leaving nothing but mire; there we can walk about, and eat frogs in abundance."
29:29	Su+:Su+	+:+	"Oh, o- h!" cried the young storks.
30:30	N:N	N:N	"Yes, it is a delightful place; there is nothing to do all day long but eat, and while we are so well off out there, in this country there will not be a single green leaf on the trees, and the weather will be so cold that the clouds will freeze, and fall on the earth in little white rags."
31:31	N:N	N:N	The stork meant snow, but she could not explain it in any other way.
32:32	N:N	N:N	"Will the naughty boys freeze and fall in pieces?" asked the young storks.
33:33	N:N	N:N	"No, they will not freeze and fall into pieces," said the mother, "but they will be very cold, and be obliged to sit all day in a dark, gloomy room, while we shall be flying about in foreign lands, where there are blooming flowers and warm sunshine."
34:34	N:N	N:N	Time passed on, and the young storks grew so large that they could stand upright in the nest and look about them.
35:35	N:N	N:N	The father brought them, every day, beautiful frogs, little snakes, and all kinds of stork-dainties that he could find.
36:36	N:N	N:N	And then, how funny it was to see the tricks he would perform to amuse them.
37:37	N:N	N:N	He would lay his head quite round over his tail, and clatter with his beak, as if it had been a rattle; and then he would tell them stories all about the marshes and fens.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"Come," said the mother one day, "Now you must learn to fly."
39:39	N:N	N:N	And all the four young ones were obliged to come out on the top of the roof.
40:40	N:N	N:N	Oh, how they tottered at first, and were obliged to balance themselves with their wings, or they would have fallen to the ground below.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Look at me," said the mother, "you must hold your heads in this way, and place your feet so.
42:42	N:N	N:N	Once, twice, once, twice- that is it.
43:43	N:N	N:N	Now you will be able to take care of yourselves in the world."
44:44	N:N	N:N	Then she flew a little distance from them, and the young ones made a spring to follow her; but down they fell plump, for their bodies were still too heavy.
45:45	A:N	N:-	"I don't want to fly," said one of the young storks, creeping back into the nest.
46:46	A:N	N:-	"I don't care about going to warm countries."
47:47	D:N	D:-	"Would you like to stay here and freeze when the winter comes?" said the mother, "or till the boys comes to hang you, or to roast you?- Well then, I'll call them."
48:48	F:F	N:N	"Oh no, no," said the young stork, jumping out on the roof with the others; and now they were all attentive, and by the third day could fly a little.
49:49	N:N	N:N	Then they began to fancy they could soar, so they tried to do so, resting on their wings, but they soon found themselves falling, and had to flap their wings as quickly as possible.
50:50	N:N	N:N	The boys came again in the street singing their song:-
51:51	N:N	-:N	"Stork, stork, fly away."
52:52	A:N	A:-	"Shall we fly down, and pick their eyes out?" asked the young storks.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"No; leave them alone," said the mother.
54:54	N:N	N:N	"Listen to me; that is much more important.
55:55	N:N	N:N	Now then.
56:56	N:N	N:N	One-two-three.
57:57	N:N	N:N	Now to the right.
58:58	N:N	N:N	One-two-three.
59:59	N:N	N:N	Now to the left, round the chimney.
60:60	N:N	N:N	There now, that was very good.
61:61	H:N	H:N	That last flap of the wings was so easy and graceful, that I shall give you permission to fly with me to-morrow to the marshes.
62:62	N:N	H:N	There will be a number of very superior storks there with their families, and I expect you to show them that my children are the best brought up of any who may be present.
63:63	H:N	H:N	You must strut about proudly- it will look well and make you respected."
64:64	A:N	A:-	"But may we not punish those naughty boys?" asked the young storks.
65:65	N:N	N:N	"No; let them scream away as much as they like.
66:66	N:N	N:N	You can fly from them now up high amid the clouds, and will be in the land of the pyramids when they are freezing, and have not a green leaf on the trees or an apple to eat."
67:67	A:N	A:-	"We will revenge ourselves," whispered the young storks to each other, as they again joined the exercising.
68:68	N:N	N:-	Of all the boys in the street who sang the mocking song about the storks, not one was so determined to go on with it as he who first began it.
69:69	N:N	N:-	Yet he was a little fellow not more than six years old.
70:70	N:N	N:N	To the young storks he appeared at least a hundred, for he was so much bigger than their father and mother.
71:71	N:N	N:N	To be sure, storks cannot be expected to know how old children and grown-up people are.
72:72	N:N	N:-	So they determined to have their revenge on this boy, because he began the song first and would keep on with it.
73:73	A:A	A:A	The young storks were very angry, and grew worse as they grew older; so at last their mother was obliged to promise that they should be revenged, but not until the day of their departure.
74:74	N:N	N:N	"We must see first, how you acquit yourselves at the grand review," said she.
75:75	N:N	N:N	"If you get on badly there, the general will thrust his beak through you, and you will be killed, as the boys said, though not exactly in the same manner.
76:76	N:N	N:N	So we must wait and see."
77:77	N:N	N:N	"You shall see," said the young birds, and then they took such pains and practised so well every day, that at last it was quite a pleasure to see them fly so lightly and prettily.
78:78	N:N	N:N	As soon as the autumn arrived, all the storks began to assemble together before taking their departure for warm countries during the winter.
79:79	N:N	N:N	Then the review commenced.
80:80	N:N	N:N	They flew over forests and villages to show what they could do, for they had a long journey before them.
81:81	N:N	H:N	The young storks performed their part so well that they received a mark of honor, with frogs and snakes as a present.
82:82	N:N	H:N	These presents were the best part of the affair, for they could eat the frogs and snakes, which they very quickly did.
83:83	H:A	H:A	"Now let us have our revenge," they cried.
84:84	H:N	H:A	"Yes, certainly," cried the mother stork.
85:85	H:N	H:N	"I have thought upon the best way to be revenged.
86:86	N:N	H:N	I know the pond in which all the little children lie, waiting till the storks come to take them to their parents.
87:87	N:N	H:N	The prettiest little babies lie there dreaming more sweetly than they will ever dream in the time to come.
88:88	N:N	H:N	All parents are glad to have a little child, and children are so pleased with a little brother or sister.
89:89	N:N	H:N	Now we will fly to the pond and fetch a little baby for each of the children who did not sing that naughty song to make game of the storks."
90:90	N:A	N:A	"But the naughty boy, who began the song first, what shall we do to him?" cried the young storks.
91:91	N:N	N:-	"There lies in the pond a little dead baby who has dreamed itself to death," said the mother.
92:92	N:Sa	N:S	"We will take it to the naughty boy, and he will cry because we have brought him a little dead brother.
93:93	N:N	N:N	But you have not forgotten the good boy who said it was a shame to laugh at animals: we will take him a little brother and sister too, because he was good.
94:94	N:N	N:N	He is called Peter, and you shall all be called Peter in future."
95:95	N:N	N:N	So they all did what their mother had arranged, and from that day, even till now, all the storks have been called Peter.
0:0	N:N	N:N	IN the old days, when grandpapa was quite a little boy, and ran about in little red breeches and a red coat, and a feather in his cap- for that's the costume the little boys wore in his time when they were dressed in their best- many things were very different from what they are now.
1:1	N:N	N:N	There was often a good deal of show in the streets- show that we don't see nowadays, because it has been abolished as too old-fashioned.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Still, it is very interesting to hear grandfather tell about it.
3:3	N:N	H:N	It must really have been a gorgeous sight to behold, in those days, when the shoemaker brought over the shield, when the court-house was changed.
4:4	N:N	H:N	The silken flag waved to and fro, on the shield itself a double eagle was displayed, and a big boot; the youngest lads carried the "welcome," and the chest of the workmen's guild, and their shirt-sleeves were adorned with red and white ribbons; the elder ones carried drawn swords, each with a lemon stuck on its point.
5:5	N:N	H:N	There was a full band of music, and the most splendid of all the instruments was the "bird," as grandfather called the big stick with the crescent on the top, and all manner of dingle-dangles hanging to it- a perfect Turkish clatter of music.
6:6	N:N	H:N	The stick was lifted high in the air, and swung up and down till it jingled again, and quite dazzled one's eyes when the sun shone on all its glory of gold, and silver, and brass.
7:7	N:N	H:N	In front of the procession ran the Harlequin, dressed in clothes made of all kinds of colored patches artfully sewn together, with a black face, and bells on his head like a sledge horse.
8:8	N:N	N:N	He beat the people with his bat, which made a great clattering without hurting them, and the people would crowd together and fall back, only to advance again the next moment.
9:9	N:N	N:N	Little boys and girls fell over their own toes into the gutter, old women dispensed digs with their elbows, and looked sour, and took snuff.
10:10	N:N	N:N	One laughed, another chatted; the people thronged the windows and door-steps, and even all the roofs.
11:11	N:N	N:N	The sun shone; and although they had a little rain too, that was good for the farmer; and when they got wetted thoroughly, they only thought what a blessing it was for the country.
12:12	H:N	H:+	And what stories grandpapa could tell!
13:13	N:N	H:N	As a little boy he had seen all these fine doings in their greatest pomp.
14:14	N:N	N:N	The oldest of the policemen used to make a speech from the platform on which the shield was hung up, and the speech was in verse, as if it had been made by a poet, as, indeed it had; for three people had concocted it together, and they had first drunk a good bowl of punch, so that the speech might turn out well.
15:15	N:N	N:N	And the people gave a cheer for the speech, but they shouted much louder for the Harlequin, when he appeared in front of the platform, and made a grimace at them.
16:16	N:N	H:N	The fools played the fool most admirably, and drank mead out of spirit-glasses, which they then flung among the crowd, by whom they were caught up.
17:17	N:N	N:N	Grandfather was the possessor of one of these glasses, which had been given him by a working mason, who had managed to catch it.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Such a scene was really very pleasant; and the shield on the new court-house was hung with flowers and green wreaths.
19:19	H:N	H:N	"One never forgets a feast like that, however old one may grow," said grandfather.
20:20	N:N	N:N	Nor did he forget it, though he saw many other grand spectacles in his time, and could tell about them too; but it was most pleasant of all to hear him tell about the shield that was brought in the town from the old to the new court-house.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Once, when he was a little boy, grandpapa had gone with his parents to see this festivity.
22:22	N:N	N:N	He had never yet been in the metropolis of the country.
23:23	N:N	N:N	There were so many people in the streets, that he thought that the shield was being carried.
24:24	N:N	N:N	There were many shields to be seen; a hundred rooms might have been filled with pictures, if they had been hung up inside and outside.
25:25	N:N	N:N	At the tailor's were pictures of all kinds of clothing, to show that he could stitch up people from the coarsest to the finest; at the tobacco manufacturer's were pictures of the most charming little boys, smoking cigars, just as they do in reality; there were signs with painted butter, and herring, clerical collars, and coffins, and inscriptions and announcements into the bargain.
26:26	N:N	N:N	A person could walk up and down for a whole day through the streets, and tire himself out with looking at the pictures; and then he would know all about what people lived in the houses, for they had hung out their shields or signs; and, as grandfather said, it was a very instructive thing, in a great town, to know at once who the inhabitants were.
27:27	N:N	N:N	And this is what happened with these shields, when grandpapa came to the town.
28:28	N:N	N:N	He told it me himself, and he hadn't "a rogue on his back," as mother used to tell me he had when he wanted to make me believe something outrageous, for now he looked quite trustworthy.
29:29	N:N	N:N	The first night after he came to the town had been signalized by the most terrible gale ever recorded in the newspapers- a gale such as none of the inhabitants had ever before experienced.
30:30	N:N	N:N	The air was dark with flying tiles; old wood-work crashed and fell; and a wheelbarrow ran up the streets all alone, only to get out of the way.
31:31	N:N	F:-	There was a groaning in the air, and a howling and a shrieking, and altogether it was a terrible storm.
32:32	N:N	F:-	The water in the canal rose over the banks, for it did not know where to run.
33:33	N:N	F:-	The storm swept over the town, carrying plenty of chimneys with it, and more than one proud weathercock on a church tower had to bow, and has never got over it from that time.
34:34	N:N	N:N	There was a kind of sentry-house, where dwelt the venerable old superintendent of the fire brigade, who always arrived with the last engine.
35:35	N:N	N:-	The storm would not leave this little sentry-house alone, but must needs tear it from its fastenings, and roll it down the street; and, wonderfully enough, it stopped opposite to the door of the dirty journeyman plasterer, who had saved three lives at the last fire, but the sentry-house thought nothing of that.
36:36	N:N	-:-	The barber's shield, the great brazen dish, was carried away, and hurled straight into the embrasure of the councillor of justice; and the whole neighborhood said this looked almost like malice, inasmuch as they, and nearly all the friends of the councillor's wife, used to call that lady "the Razor" for she was so sharp that she knew more about other people's business than they knew about it themselves.
37:37	N:N	-:N	A shield with a dried salt fish painted on it flew exactly in front of the door of a house where dwelt a man who wrote a newspaper.
38:38	N:N	N:N	That was a very poor joke perpetrated by the gale, which seemed to have forgotten that a man who writes in a paper is not the kind of person to understand any liberty taken with him; for he is a king in his own newspaper, and likewise in his own opinion.
39:39	N:N	-:-	The weathercock flew to the opposite house, where he perched, looking the picture of malice- so the neighbors said.
40:40	N:N	-:-	The cooper's tub stuck itself up under the head of "ladies' costumes."
41:41	N:N	-:-	The eating-house keeper's bill of fare, which had hung at his door in a heavy frame, was posted by the storm over the entrance to the theatre, where nobody went.
42:42	N:N	N:-	"It was a ridiculous list- horse-radish, soup, and stuffed cabbage."
43:43	N:N	N:-	And now people came in plenty.
44:44	N:N	N:N	The fox's skin, the honorable sign of the furrier, was found fastened to the bell-pull of a young man who always went to early lecture, and looked like a furled umbrella.
45:45	N:N	N:N	He said he was striving after truth, and was considered by his aunt "a model and an example."
46:46	N:N	N:N	The inscription "Institution for Superior Education" was found near the billiard club, which place of resort was further adorned with the words, "Children brought up by hand."
47:47	N:N	N:N	Now, this was not at all witty; but, you see, the storm had done it, and no one has any control over that.
48:48	Su-:N	-:-	It was a terrible night, and in the morning- only think!- nearly all the shields had changed places.
49:49	H:N	H:-	In some places the inscriptions were so malicious, that grandfather would not speak of them at all; but I saw that he was chuckling secretly, and there may have been some inaccuracy in his description, after all.
50:50	N:N	N:-	The poor people in the town, and still more the strangers, were continually making mistakes in the people they wanted to see; nor was this to be avoided, when they went according to the shields that were hung up.
51:51	N:N	-:-	Thus, for instance, some who wanted to go to a very grave assembly of elderly men, where important affairs were to be discussed, found themselves in a noisy boys' school, where all the company were leaping over the chairs and tables.
52:52	N:N	-:-	There were also people who made a mistake between the church and the theatre, and that was terrible indeed!
53:53	N:N	N:N	Such a storm we have never witnessed in our day; for that only happened in grandpapa's time, when he was quite a little boy.
54:54	N:N	N:N	Perhaps we shall never experience a storm of the kind, but our grandchildren may; and we can only hope and pray that all may stay at home while the storm is moving the shields.
0:0	N:N	N:N	ONCE upon a time lived a poor prince; his kingdom was very small, but it was large enough to enable him to marry, and marry he would.
1:1	N:N	N:N	It was rather bold of him that he went and asked the emperor's daughter: "Will you marry me?" but he ventured to do so, for his name was known far and wide, and there were hundreds of princesses who would have gladly accepted him, but would she do so?
2:2	N:N	N:N	Now we shall see.
3:3	N:N	N:N	On the grave of the prince's father grew a rose-tree, the most beautiful of its kind.
4:4	N:N	N:N	It bloomed only once in five years, and then it had only one single rose upon it, but what a rose!
5:5	N:N	H:H	It had such a sweet scent that one instantly forgot all sorrow and grief when one smelt it.
6:6	N:N	H:H	He had also a nightingale, which could sing as if every sweet melody was in its throat.
7:7	N:N	N:H	This rose and the nightingale he wished to give to the princess; and therefore both were put into big silver cases and sent to her.
8:8	H:H	H:H	The emperor ordered them to be carried into the great hall where the princess was just playing "Visitors are coming" with her ladies-in-waiting; when she saw the large cases with the presents therein, she clapped her hands for joy.
9:9	N:N	H:H	"I wish it were a little pussy cat," she said.
10:10	N:N	N:N	But then the rose-tree with the beautiful rose was unpacked.
11:11	H:N	H:H	"Oh, how nicely it is made," exclaimed the ladies.
12:12	H:N	H:H	"It is more than nice," said the emperor, "it is charming."
13:13	Su-:Sa	S:S	The princess touched it and nearly began to cry.
14:14	Su-:N	S:D	"For shame, pa," she said, "it is not artificial, it is natural!"
15:15	D:N	D:D	"For shame, it is natural" repeated all her ladies.
16:16	N:N	N:N	"Let us first see what the other case contains before we are angry," said the emperor; then the nightingale was taken out, and it sang so beautifully that no one could possibly say anything unkind about it.
17:17	H:N	H:H	"Superbe, charmant," said the ladies of the court, for they all prattled French, one worse than the other.
18:18	N:N	N:H	"How much the bird reminds me of the musical box of the late lamented empress," said an old courtier, "it has exactly the same tone, the same execution."
19:19	Sa:Sa	S:S	"You are right," said the emperor, and began to cry like a little child.
20:20	N:N	N:S	"I hope it is not natural," said the princess.
21:21	N:N	N:N	"Yes, certainly it is natural," replied those who had brought the presents.
22:22	N:N	D:A	"Then let it fly," said the princess, and refused to see the prince.
23:23	N:H	N:H	But the prince was not discouraged.
24:24	N:N	N:N	He painted his face, put on common clothes, pulled his cap over his forehead, and came back.
25:25	N:N	N:N	"Good day, emperor," he said, "could you not give me some employment at the court?"
26:26	N:N	N:N	"There are so many," replied the emperor, "who apply for places, that for the present I have no vacancy, but I will remember you.
27:27	N:N	N:N	But wait a moment; it just comes into my mind, I require somebody to look after my pigs, for I have a great many."
28:28	N:N	N:N	Thus the prince was appointed imperial swineherd, and as such he lived in a wretchedly small room near the pigsty; there he worked all day long, and when it was night he had made a pretty little pot.
29:29	N:N	N:H	There were little bells round the rim, and when the water began to boil in it, the bells began to play the old tune:
30:30	N:N	H:H	"A jolly old sow once lived in a sty, Three little piggies had she," &c.
31:31	N:N	H:+	But what was more wonderful was that, when one put a finger into the steam rising from the pot, one could at once smell what meals they were preparing on every fire in the whole town.
32:32	N:N	N:H	That was indeed much more remarkable than the rose.
33:33	H:H	H:H	When the princess with her ladies passed by and heard the tune, she stopped and looked quite pleased, for she also could play it- in fact, it was the only tune she could play, and she played it with one finger.
34:34	H:N	H:H	"That is the tune I know," she exclaimed.
35:35	N:N	H:H	"He must be a well-educated swineherd.
36:36	N:N	N:H	Go and ask him how much the instrument is."
37:37	N:N	N:N	One of the ladies had to go and ask; but she put on pattens.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"What will you take for your pot?" asked the lady.
39:39	N:N	H:N	"I will have ten kisses from the princess," said the swineherd.
40:40	D:N	D:A	"God forbid," said the lady.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Well, I cannot sell it for less," replied the swineherd.
42:42	N:N	N:N	"What did he say?" said the princess.
43:43	N:N	N:A	I really cannot tell you," replied the lady.
44:44	N:N	N:N	"You can whisper it into my ear."
45:45	D:N	D:A	"It is very naughty," said the princess, and walked off.
46:46	N:N	N:N	But when she had gone a little distance, the bells rang again so sweetly:
47:47	N:N	N:H	"A jolly old sow once lived in a sty, Three little piggies had she," &c.
48:48	N:N	N:N	"Ask him," said the princess, "if he will be satisfied with ten kisses from one of my ladies."
49:49	N:N	N:N	"No, thank you," said the swineherd: "ten kisses from the princess, or I keep my pot."
50:50	D:N	D:A	"That is tiresome," said the princess.
51:51	N:N	N:A	"But you must stand before me, so that nobody can see it."
52:52	N:N	N:N	The ladies placed themselves in front of her and spread out their dresses, and she gave the swineherd ten kisses and received the pot.
53:53	H:H	H:H	That was a pleasure!
54:54	N:N	N:N	Day and night the water in the pot was boiling; there was not a single fire in the whole town of which they did not know what was preparing on it, the chamberlain's as well as the shoemaker's.
55:55	H:H	H:H	The ladies danced and clapped their hands for joy.
56:56	N:N	H:H	"We know who will eat soup and pancakes; we know who will eat porridge and cutlets; oh, how interesting!"
57:57	N:N	N:H	"Very interesting, indeed," said the mistress of the household.
58:58	N:N	N:N	"But you must not betray me, for I am the emperor's daughter."
59:59	N:N	N:N	"Of course not," they all said.
60:60	N:N	N:N	The swineherd- that is to say, the prince- but they did not know otherwise than that he was a real swineherd- did not waste a single day without doing something; he made a rattle, which, when turned quickly round, played all the waltzes, galops, and polkas known since the creation of the world.
61:61	H:N	H:H	"But that is superbe," said the princess passing by.
62:62	H:N	H:H	"I have never heard a more beautiful composition.
63:63	N:N	N:N	Go down and ask him what the instrument costs; but I shall not kiss him again."
64:64	N:N	N:N	"He will have a hundred kisses from the princess," said the lady, who had gone down to ask him.
65:65	D:N	D:A	"I believe he is mad," said the princess, and walked off, but soon she stopped.
66:66	N:N	N:N	"One must encourage art," she said.
67:67	N:N	N:N	"I am the emperor's daughter!
68:68	N:N	N:N	Tell him I will give him ten kisses, as I did the other day; the remainder one of my ladies can give him.
69:69	D:N	D:A	"But we do not like to kiss him" said the ladies.
70:70	N:N	N:A	"That is nonsense," said the princess; "if I can kiss him, you can also do it.
71:71	N:N	N:A	Remember that I give you food and employment."
72:72	N:N	N:N	And the lady had to go down once more.
73:73	N:N	N:N	"A hundred kisses from the princess," said the swineherd, "or everybody keeps his own."
74:74	N:N	N:N	"Place yourselves before me," said the princess then.
75:75	N:N	N:N	They did as they were bidden, and the princess kissed him.
76:76	N:N	N:-	"I wonder what that crowd near the pigsty means!" said the emperor, who had just come out on his balcony.
77:77	N:N	N:-	He rubbed his eyes and put his spectacles on.
78:78	D:N	N:-	"The ladies of the court are up to some mischief, I think.
79:79	N:N	N:N	I shall have to go down and see."
80:80	N:N	N:N	He pulled up his shoes, for they were down at the heels, and he was very quick about it.
81:81	N:N	N:N	When he had come down into the courtyard he walked quite softly, and the ladies were so busily engaged in counting the kisses, that all should be fair, that they did not notice the emperor.
82:82	N:N	N:N	He raised himself on tiptoe.
83:83	Su-:N	-:A	"What does this mean?" he said, when he saw that his daughter was kissing the swineherd, and then hit their heads with his shoe just as the swineherd received the sixty-eighth kiss.
84:84	A:A	A:A	"Go out of my sight," said the emperor, for he was very angry; and both the princess and the swineherd were banished from the empire.
85:85	Sa:Sa	S:S	There she stood and cried, the swineherd scolded her, and the rain came down in torrents.
86:86	Sa:N	S:S	"Alas, unfortunate creature that I am!" said the princess, "I wish I had accepted the prince.
87:87	Sa:Sa	S:S	Oh, how wretched I am!"
88:88	N:N	N:+	The swineherd went behind a tree, wiped his face, threw off his poor attire and stepped forth in his princely garments; he looked so beautiful that the princess could not help bowing to him.
89:89	N:A	N:A	"I have now learnt to despise you," he said.
90:90	D:N	D:A	"You refused an honest prince; you did not appreciate the rose and the nightingale; but you did not mind kissing a swineherd for his toys; you have no one but yourself to blame!"
91:91	N:N	N:A	And then he returned into his kingdom and left her behind.
92:92	N:N	N:N	She could now sing at her leisure:
93:93	N:N	N:N	"A jolly old sow once lived in a sty, Three little piggies has she," &c.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THE well was deep, and therefore the rope had to be a long one; it was heavy work turning the handle when any one had to raise a bucketful of water over the edge of the well.
1:1	N:N	N:N	Though the water was clear, the sun never looked down far enough into the well to mirror itself in the waters; but as far as its beams could reach, green things grew forth between the stones in the sides of the well.
2:2	N:N	N:N	Down below dwelt a family of the Toad race.
3:3	N:N	N:N	They had, in fact, come head-over-heels down the well, in the person of the old Mother-Toad, who was still alive.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The green Frogs, who had been established there a long time, and swam about in the water, called them "well-guests."
5:5	N:N	N:N	But the new-comers seemed determined to stay where they were, for they found it very agreeable living "in a dry place," as they called the wet stones.
6:6	N:N	N:N	The Mother-Frog had once been a traveller.
7:7	N:N	N:-	She happened to be in the water-bucket when it was drawn up, but the light became too strong for her, and she got a pain in her eyes.
8:8	Sa:N	-:-	Fortunately she scrambled out of the bucket; but she fell into the water with a terrible flop, and had to lie sick for three days with pains in her back.
9:9	N:N	N:N	She certainly had not much to tell of the things up above, but she knew this, and all the Frogs knew it, that the well was not all the world.
10:10	N:N	N:N	The Mother-Toad might have told this and that, if she had chosen, but she never answered when they asked her anything, and so they left off asking.
11:11	D:N	D:-	"She's thick, and fat and ugly," said the young green Frogs; "and her children will be just as ugly as she is."
12:12	N:N	N:-	"That may be," retorted the mother-Toad, "but one of them has a jewel in his head, or else I have the jewel."
13:13	D:N	D:-	The young frogs listened and stared; and as these words did not please them, they made grimaces and dived down under the water.
14:14	N:N	N:N	But the little Toads kicked up their hind legs from mere pride, for each of them thought that he must have the jewel; and then they sat and held their heads quite still.
15:15	N:N	N:N	But at length they asked what it was that made them so proud, and what kind of a thing a jewel might be.
16:16	H:N	H:N	"Oh, it is such a splendid and precious thing, that I cannot describe it," said the Mother-Toad.
17:17	N:N	N:-	"It's something which one carries about for one's own pleasure, and that makes other people angry.
18:18	N:N	N:N	But don't ask me any questions, for I shan't answer you."
19:19	N:N	N:-	"Well, I haven't got the jewel," said the smallest of the Toads; she was as ugly as a toad can be.
20:20	N:N	N:N	"Why should I have such a precious thing?
21:21	N:N	N:N	And if it makes others angry, it can't give me any pleasure.
22:22	N:N	N:N	No, I only wish I could get to the edge of the well, and look out; it must be beautiful up there."
23:23	N:N	N:N	"You'd better stay where you are," said the old Mother-Toad, "for you know everything here, and you can tell what you have.
24:24	N:N	N:-	Take care of the bucket, for it will crush you to death; and even if you get into it safely, you may fall out.
25:25	N:N	N:N	And it's not every one who falls so cleverly as I did, and gets away with whole legs and whole bones.
26:26	D:N	N:+	"Quack!" said the little Toad; and that's just as if one of us were to say, "Aha!"
27:27	N:N	-:N	She had an immense desire to get to the edge of the well, and to look over; she felt such a longing for the green, up there; and the next morning, when it chanced that the bucket was being drawn up, filled with water, and stopped for a moment just in front of the stone on which the Toad sat, the little creature's heart moved within it, and our Toad jumped into the filled bucket, which presently was drawn to the top, and emptied out.
28:28	D:A	D:A	"Ugh, you beast!" said the farm laborer who emptied the bucket, when he saw the toad.
29:29	D:N	D:A	"You're the ugliest thing I've seen for one while."
30:30	N:N	D:-	And he made a kick with his wooden shoe at the toad, which just escaped being crushed by managing to scramble into the nettles which grew high by the well's brink.
31:31	N:N	N:N	Here she saw stem by stem, but she looked up also; the sun shone through the leaves, which were quite transparent; and she felt as a person would feel who steps suddenly into a great forest, where the sun looks in between the branches and leaves.
32:32	H:N	+:+	"It's much nicer here than down in the well!
33:33	H:N	+:N	I should like to stay here my whole life long!" said the little Toad.
34:34	N:N	H:N	So she lay there for an hour, yes, for two hours.
35:35	N:N	N:N	"I wonder what is to be found up here?
36:36	N:N	N:N	As I have come so far, I must try to go still farther."
37:37	N:N	N:N	And so she crawled on as fast as she could crawl, and got out upon the highway, where the sun shone upon her, and the dust powdered her all over as she marched across the way.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"I've got to a dry place. now, and no mistake," said the Toad.
39:39	H:N	H:N	"It's almost too much of a good thing here; it tickles one so."
40:40	N:N	N:N	She came to the ditch; and forget-me-nots were growing there, and meadow-sweet; and a very little way off was a hedge of whitethorn, and elder bushes grew there, too, and bindweed with white flowers.
41:41	N:N	H:H	Gay colors were to be seen here, and a butterfly, too, was flitting by.
42:42	N:N	N:N	The Toad thought it was a flower which had broken loose that it might look about better in the world, which was quite a natural thing to do.
43:43	N:N	N:H	"If one could only make such a journey as that!" said the Toad.
44:44	N:N	N:N	"Croak! how capital that would be."
45:45	N:N	N:N	Eight days and eight nights she stayed by the well, and experienced no want of provisions.
46:46	N:N	N:+	On the ninth day she thought, "Forward! onward!"
47:47	N:N	N:N	But what could she find more charming and beautiful?
48:48	N:N	N:N	Perhaps a little toad or a few green frogs.
49:49	N:N	N:N	During the last night there had been a sound borne on the breeze, as if there were cousins in the neighborhood.
50:50	H:N	H:H	"It's a glorious thing to live! glorious to get out of the well, and to lie among the stinging-nettles, and to crawl along the dusty road.
51:51	N:N	H:N	But onward, onward! that we may find frogs or a little toad.
52:52	N:N	N:N	We can't do without that; nature alone is not enough for one."
53:53	N:N	N:N	And so she went forward on her journey.
54:54	N:N	N:N	She came out into the open field, to a great pond, round about which grew reeds; and she walked into it.
55:55	H:N	H:N	"It will be too damp for you here," said the Frogs; "but you are very welcome!
56:56	N:N	N:N	Are you a he or a she?
57:57	H:N	H:N	But it doesn't matter; you are equally welcome."
58:58	N:N	H:N	And she was invited to the concert in the evening- the family concert; great enthusiasm and thin voices; we know the sort of thing.
59:59	N:N	H:N	No refreshments were given, only there was plenty to drink, for the whole pond was free.
60:60	N:N	N:N	"Now I shall resume my journey," said the little Toad; for she always felt a longing for something better.
61:61	N:N	N:N	She saw the stars shining, so large and so bright, and she saw the moon gleaming; and then she saw the sun rise, and mount higher and higher.
62:62	N:N	N:N	"Perhaps after all, I am still in a well, only in a larger well.
63:63	A:N	N:N	I must get higher yet; I feel a great restlessness and longing."
64:64	N:N	N:N	And when the moon became round and full, the poor creature thought, "I wonder if that is the bucket which will be let down, and into which I must step to get higher up?
65:65	N:N	N:N	Or is the sun the great bucket?
66:66	Su+:N	+:H	How great it is! how bright it is!
67:67	N:N	+:H	It can take up all.
68:68	N:N	+:N	I must look out, that I may not miss the opportunity.
69:69	Su+:N	+:N	Oh, how it seems to shine in my head!
70:70	N:N	+:N	I don't think the jewel can shine brighter.
71:71	H:N	H:+	But I haven't the jewel; not that I cry about that- no, I must go higher up, into splendor and joy!
72:72	F:F	+:N	I feel so confident, and yet I am afraid.
73:73	F:N	+:N	It's a difficult step to take, and yet it must be taken.
74:74	H:N	H:H	Onward, therefore, straight onward!"
75:75	N:N	N:N	She took a few steps, such as a crawling animal may take, and soon found herself on a road beside which people dwelt; but there were flower gardens as well as kitchen gardens.
76:76	N:N	N:N	And she sat down to rest by a kitchen garden.
77:77	Su+:N	+:H	"What a number of different creatures there are that I never knew! and how beautiful and great the world is!
78:78	N:N	+:N	But one must look round in it, and not stay in one spot."
79:79	N:N	N:N	And then she hopped into the kitchen garden.
80:80	Su+:N	+:H	"How green it is here! how beautiful it is here!"
81:81	N:N	N:N	"I know that," said the Caterpillar, on the leaf, "my leaf is the largest here.
82:82	D:N	N:N	It hides half the world from me, but I don't care for the world."
83:83	N:N	N:N	"Cluck, cluck!"
84:84	N:N	N:N	And some fowls came.
85:85	N:N	N:N	They tripped about in the cabbage garden.
86:86	N:N	-:-	The Fowl who marched at the head of them had a long sight, and she spied the Caterpillar on the green leaf, and pecked at it, so that the Caterpillar fell on the ground, where it twisted and writhed.
87:87	N:N	-:N	The Fowl looked at it first with one eye and then with the other, for she did not know what the end of this writhing would be.
88:88	D:N	-:N	"It doesn't do that with a good will," thought the Fowl, and lifted up her head to peck at the Caterpillar.
89:89	F:F	-:F	The Toad was so horrified at this, that she came crawling straight up towards the Fowl.
90:90	Su-:N	-:-	"Aha, it has allies," quoth the Fowl.
91:91	D:N	-:-	"Just look at the crawling thing!"
92:92	N:N	N:N	And then the Fowl turned away.
93:93	D:N	-:-	"I don't care for the little green morsel; it would only tickle my throat."
94:94	N:N	N:-	The other fowls took the same view of it, and they all turned away together.
95:95	H:N	N:H	"I writhed myself free," said the Caterpillar.
96:96	H:N	H:N	"What a good thing it is when one has presence of mind!
97:97	N:N	N:N	But the hardest thing remains to be done, and that is to get on my leaf again.
98:98	N:N	N:N	Where is it?"
99:99	Sa:N	N:N	And the little Toad came up and expressed her sympathy.
100:100	H:H	H:H	She was glad that in her ugliness she had frightened the fowls.
101:101	N:N	N:N	"What do you mean by that?" cried the Caterpillar.
102:102	N:N	N:N	"I wriggled myself free from the Fowl.
103:103	N:N	N:N	You are very disagreeable to look at.
104:104	N:N	N:N	Cannot I be left in peace on my own property?
105:105	N:N	N:N	Now I smell cabbage; now I am near my leaf.
106:106	H:N	N:N	Nothing is so beautiful as property.
107:107	N:N	N:N	But I must go higher up."
108:108	H:N	N:N	"Yes, higher up," said the little Toad; "higher-up!
109:109	N:N	N:N	She feels just as I do; but she's not in a good humor to-day.
110:110	N:N	F:N	That's because of the fright.
111:111	N:N	F:N	We all want to go higher up."
112:112	N:N	N:N	And she looked up as high as ever she could.
113:113	N:N	N:N	The stork sat in his nest on the roof of the farm-house.
114:114	N:N	N:N	He clapped with his beak, and the Mother-stork clapped with hers.
115:115	Su+:N	+:+	"How high up they live!" thought the Toad.
116:116	Su+:N	+:+	"If one could only get as high as that!"
117:117	N:N	N:N	In the farm-house lived two young students; the one was a poet and the other a scientific searcher into the secrets of nature.
118:118	N:N	N:H	The one sang and wrote joyously of everything that God had created, and how it was mirrored in his heart.
119:119	N:N	N:N	He sang it out clearly, sweetly, richly, in well-sounding verses; while the other investigated created matter itself, and even cut it open where need was.
120:120	N:N	N:H	He looked upon God's creation as a great sum in arithmetic- subtracted, multiplied, and tried to know it within and without, and to talk with understanding concerning it; and that was a very sensible thing; and he spoke joyously and cleverly of it.
121:121	N:N	N:H	They were good, joyful men, those two, "There sits a good specimen of a toad," said the naturalist.
122:122	N:N	N:N	"I must have that fellow in a bottle of spirits."
123:123	N:N	N:N	"You have two of them already," replied the poet.
124:124	N:N	N:N	"Let the thing sit there and enjoy its life."
125:125	H:N	N:-	"But it's so wonderfully ugly," persisted the first.
126:126	N:N	N:N	"Yes, if we could find the jewel in its head," said the poet, "I too should be for cutting it open.'
127:127	Su+:N	+:+	"A jewel!" cried the naturalist.
128:128	N:N	N:N	"You seem to know a great deal about natural history."
129:129	N:N	N:-	"But is there not something beautiful in the popular belief that just as the toad is the ugliest of animals, it should often carry the most precious jewel in its head?
130:130	N:N	N:N	Is it not just the same thing with men?
131:131	N:N	N:-	What a jewel that was that Aesop had, and still more, Socrates!"
132:132	N:N	N:N	The Toad did not hear any more, nor did she understand half of what she had heard.
133:133	N:N	N:N	The two friends walked on, and thus she escaped the fate of being bottled up in spirits.
134:134	N:N	N:N	"Those two also were speaking of the jewel," said the Toad to herself.
135:135	H:N	H:H	"What a good thing that I have not got it!
136:136	N:N	H:N	I might have been in a very disagreeable position."
137:137	N:N	N:N	Now there was a clapping on the roof of the farm-house.
138:138	N:N	N:N	Father-Stork was making a speech to his family, and his family was glancing down at the two young men in the kitchen garden.
139:139	D:N	D:A	"Man is the most conceited creature!" said the Stork.
140:140	D:N	D:N	"Listen how their jaws are wagging; and for all that they can't clap properly.
141:141	D:N	D:A	They boast of their gifts of eloquence and their language!
142:142	N:N	D:N	Yes, a fine language truly!
143:143	N:N	D:N	Why, it changes in every day's journey we make.
144:144	N:N	D:N	One of them doesn't understand another.
145:145	N:N	D:N	Now, we can speak our language over the whole earth- up in the North and in Egypt.
146:146	N:N	D:N	And then men are not able to fly, moreover.
147:147	N:N	D:N	They rush along by means of an invention they call 'railway;' but they often break their necks over it.
148:148	D:N	D:N	It makes my beak turn cold when I think of it.
149:149	D:N	D:N	The world could get on without men.
150:150	N:N	D:N	We could do without them very well, so long as we only keep frogs and earth-worms."
151:151	N:N	N:N	"That was a powerful speech," thought the little Toad.
152:152	Su+:N	+:+	"What a great man that is yonder! and how high he sits!
153:153	Su+:N	+:H	Higher than ever I saw any one sit yet; and how he can swim!" she cried, as the Stork soared away through the air with outspread pinions.
154:154	N:N	N:+	And the Mother-Stork began talking in the nest, and told about Egypt and the waters of the Nile, and the incomparable mud that was to be found in that strange land; and all this sounded new and very charming to the little Toad.
155:155	H:N	H:+	"I must go to Egypt!" said she.
156:156	H:N	H:N	"If the Stork or one of his young ones would only take me!
157:157	N:N	H:N	I would oblige him in return.
158:158	H:H	H:H	Yes, I shall get to Egypt, for I feel so happy!
159:159	H:N	H:N	All the longing and all the pleasure that I feel is much better than having a jewel in one's head."
160:160	N:N	H:N	And it was just she who had the jewel.
161:161	N:N	H:N	That jewel was the continual striving and desire to go upward- ever upward.
162:162	N:N	H:H	It gleamed in her head, gleamed in joy, beamed brightly in her longing.
163:163	N:N	N:-	Then, suddenly, up came the Stork.
164:164	N:N	-:-	He had seen the Toad in the grass, and stooped down and seized the little creature anything but gently.
165:165	H:H	+:H	The Stork's beak pinched her, and the wind whistled; it was not exactly agreeable, but she was going upward- upward towards Egypt- and she knew it; and that was why her eyes gleamed, and a spark seemed to fly out of them.
166:166	Su-:N	-:-	"Quunk!- ah!"
167:167	N:N	-:-	The body was dead- the Toad was killed!
168:168	N:N	-:-	But the spark that had shot forth from her eyes; what became of that?
169:169	N:N	N:N	The sunbeam took it up; the sunbeam carried the jewel from the head of the toad.
170:170	N:N	N:N	Whither?
171:171	N:N	N:N	Ask not the naturalist; rather ask the poet.
172:172	N:N	N:N	He will tell it thee under the guise of a fairy tale; and the Caterpillar on the cabbage, and the Stork family belong to the story.
173:173	N:N	N:N	Think! the Caterpillar is changed, and turns into a beautiful butterfly; the Stork family flies over mountains and seas, to the distant Africa, and yet finds the shortest way home to the same country- to the same roof.
174:174	N:N	N:N	Nay, that is almost too improbable; and yet it is true.
175:175	N:N	N:N	You may ask the naturalist, he will confess it is so; and you know it yourself, for you have seen it.
176:176	N:N	N:N	But the jewel in the head of the toad?
177:177	N:N	N:N	Seek it in the sun; see it there if you can.
178:178	N:N	H:N	The brightness is too dazzling there.
179:179	N:N	H:N	We have not yet such eyes as can see into the glories which God has created, but we shall receive them by-and-by; and that will be the most beautiful story of all, and we shall all have our share in it.
0:0	N:N	N:N	"NEAR the shores of the great Belt, which is one of the straits that connect the Cattegat with the Baltic, stands an old mansion with thick red walls.
1:1	N:N	N:N	I know every stone of it," says the Wind.
2:2	N:N	N:N	"I saw it when it was part of the castle of Marck Stig on the promontory.
3:3	N:N	N:N	But the castle was obliged to be pulled down, and the stone was used again for the walls of a new mansion on another spot- the baronial residence of Borreby, which still stands near the coast.
4:4	N:N	N:N	I knew them well, those noble lords and ladies, the successive generations that dwelt there; and now I'm going to tell you of Waldemar Daa and his daughters.
5:5	N:N	N:N	How proud was his bearing, for he was of royal blood, and could boast of more noble deeds than merely hunting the stag and emptying the wine-cup.
6:6	N:N	N:N	His rule was despotic: 'It shall be,' he was accustomed to say.
7:7	N:N	N:N	His wife, in garments embroidered with gold, stepped proudly over the polished marble floors.
8:8	N:N	N:N	The tapestries were gorgeous, and the furniture of costly and artistic taste.
9:9	N:N	N:N	She had brought gold and plate with her into the house.
10:10	N:N	N:N	The cellars were full of wine.
11:11	N:N	N:N	Black, fiery horses, neighed in the stables.
12:12	N:N	N:N	There was a look of wealth about the house of Borreby at that time.
13:13	N:N	N:N	They had three children, daughters, fair and delicate maidens- Ida, Joanna, and Anna Dorothea; I have never forgotten their names.
14:14	N:N	N:N	They were a rich, noble family, born in affluence and nurtured in luxury.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"Whir-r-r, whir-r-r!" roared the Wind, and went on, "I did not see in this house, as in other great houses, the high-born lady sitting among her women, turning the spinning-wheel.
16:16	N:N	N:N	She could sweep the sounding chords of the guitar, and sing to the music, not always Danish melodies, but the songs of a strange land.
17:17	N:N	N:N	It was 'Live and let live,' here.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Stranger guests came from far and near, music sounded, goblets clashed, and I," said the Wind, "was not able to drown the noise.
19:19	N:N	N:-	Ostentation, pride, splendor, and display ruled, but not the fear of the Lord.
20:20	N:N	N:-	"It was on the evening of the first day of May," the Wind continued, "I came from the west, and had seen the ships overpowered with the waves, when all on board persisted or were cast shipwrecked on the coast of Jutland.
21:21	N:N	N:-	I had hurried across the heath and over Jutland's wood-girt eastern coast, and over the island of Funen, and then I drove across the great belt, sighing and moaning.
22:22	N:N	N:N	At length I lay down to rest on the shores of Zeeland, near to the great house of Borreby, where the splendid forest of oaks still flourished.
23:23	N:N	N:N	The young men of the neighborhood were collecting branches and brushwood under the oak-trees.
24:24	N:N	N:-	The largest and dryest they could find they carried into the village, and piled them up in a heap and set them on fire.
25:25	N:N	H:N	Then the men and maidens danced, and sung in a circle round the blazing pile.
26:26	N:N	N:-	I lay quite quiet," said the Wind, "but I silently touched a branch which had been brought by one of the handsomest of the young men, and the wood blazed up brightly, blazed brighter than all the rest.
27:27	N:N	N:N	Then he was chosen as the chief, and received the name of the Shepherd; and might choose his lamb from among the maidens.
28:28	N:N	H:H	There was greater mirth and rejoicing than I had ever heard in the halls of the rich baronial house.
29:29	N:N	N:N	Then the noble lady drove by towards the baron's mansion with her three daughters, in a gilded carriage drawn by six horses.
30:30	N:N	N:N	The daughters were young and beautiful- three charming blossoms- a rose, a lily, and a white hyacinth.
31:31	N:N	N:N	The mother was a proud tulip, and never acknowledged the salutations of any of the men or maidens who paused in their sport to do her honor.
32:32	N:N	N:N	The gracious lady seemed like a flower that was rather stiff in the stalk.
33:33	N:N	N:N	Rose, lily, and hyacinth- yes, I saw them all three.
34:34	N:N	N:N	Whose little lambs will they one day become? thought I; their shepherd will be a gallant knight, perhaps a prince.
35:35	N:N	H:H	The carriage rolled on, and the peasants resumed their dancing.
36:36	N:N	N:N	They drove about the summer through all the villages near.
37:37	N:N	N:N	But one night, when I rose again, the high-born lady lay down to rise again no more; that thing came to her which comes to us all, in which there is nothing new.
38:38	Sa:N	S:N	Waldemar Daa remained for a time silent and thoughtful.
39:39	N:N	S:S	'The loftiest tree may be bowed without being broken,' said a voice within him.
40:40	Sa:N	S:S	His daughters wept; all the people in the mansion wiped their eyes, but Lady Daa had driven away, and I drove away too," said the Wind.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Whir-r-r, whir-r-r-!
42:42	N:N	N:N	"I returned again; I often returned and passed over the island of Funen and the shores of the Belt.
43:43	N:N	N:N	Then I rested by Borreby, near the glorious wood, where the heron made his nest, the haunt of the wood-pigeons, the blue-birds, and the black stork.
44:44	N:N	N:A	It was yet spring, some were sitting on their eggs, others had already hatched their young broods; but how they fluttered about and cried out when the axe sounded through the forest, blow upon blow!
45:45	N:N	-:A	The trees of the forest were doomed.
46:46	N:N	-:N	Waldemar Daa wanted to build a noble ship, a man-of-war, a three-decker, which the king would be sure to buy; and these, the trees of the wood, the landmark of the seamen, the refuge of the birds, must be felled.
47:47	N:N	-:A	The hawk started up and flew away, for its nest was destroyed; the heron and all the birds of the forest became homeless, and flew about in fear and anger.
48:48	N:N	N:N	I could well understand how they felt.
49:49	N:N	-:N	Crows and ravens croaked, as if in scorn, while the trees were cracking and falling around them.
50:50	Sa:Sa	S:S	Far in the interior of the wood, where a noisy swarm of laborers were working, stood Waldemar Daa and his three daughters, and all were laughing at the wild cries of the birds, excepting one, the youngest, Anna Dorothea, who felt grieved to the heart; and when they made preparations to fell a tree that was almost dead, and on whose naked branches the black stork had built her nest, she saw the poor little things stretching out their necks, and she begged for mercy for them, with the tears in her eyes.
51:51	N:N	N:S	So the tree with the black stork's nest was left standing; the tree itself, however, was not worth much to speak of.
52:52	N:N	N:N	Then there was a great deal of hewing and sawing, and at last the three-decker was built.
53:53	N:N	H:N	The builder was a man of low origin, but possessing great pride; his eyes and forehead spoke of large intellect, and Waldemar Daa was fond of listening to him, and so was Waldemar's daughter Ida, the eldest, now about fifteen years old; and while he was building the ship for the father, he was building for himself a castle in the air, in which he and Ida were to live when they were married.
54:54	N:N	N:N	This might have happened, indeed, if there had been a real castle, with stone walls, ramparts, and a moat.
55:55	N:N	N:N	But in spite of his clever head, the builder was still but a poor, inferior bird; and how can a sparrow expect to be admitted into the society of peacocks?
56:56	N:N	N:-	"I passed on in my course," said the Wind, "and he passed away also.
57:57	N:N	S:N	He was not allowed to remain, and little Ida got over it, because she was obliged to do so.
58:58	N:N	N:N	Proud, black horses, worth looking at, were neighing in the stable.
59:59	N:N	N:N	And they were locked up; for the admiral, who had been sent by the king to inspect the new ship, and make arrangements for its purchase, was loud in admiration of these beautiful horses.
60:60	N:N	N:N	I heard it all," said the Wind, "for I accompanied the gentlemen through the open door of the stable, and strewed stalks of straw, like bars of gold, at their feet.
61:61	N:N	N:N	Waldemar Daa wanted gold, and the admiral wished for the proud black horses; therefore he praised them so much.
62:62	N:N	N:-	But the hint was not taken, and consequently the ship was not bought.
63:63	N:N	N:S	It remained on the shore covered with boards,- a Noah's ark that never got to the water- Whir-r-r-r- and that was a pity.
64:64	N:N	N:S	"In the winter, when the fields were covered with snow, and the water filled with large blocks of ice which I had blown up to the coast," continued the Wind, "great flocks of crows and ravens, dark and black as they usually are, came and alighted on the lonely, deserted ship.
65:65	N:N	D:N	Then they croaked in harsh accents of the forest that now existed no more, of the many pretty birds' nests destroyed and the little ones left without a home; and all for the sake of that great bit of lumber, that proud ship, that never sailed forth.
66:66	N:N	N:N	I made the snowflakes whirl till the snow lay like a great lake round the ship, and drifted over it.
67:67	N:N	N:N	I let it hear my voice, that it might know what the storm has to say.
68:68	N:N	N:N	Certainly I did my part towards teaching it seamanship.
69:69	N:N	N:N	"That winter passed away, and another winter and summer both passed, as they are still passing away, even as I pass away.
70:70	N:N	N:N	The snow drifts onwards, the apple-blossoms are scattered, the leaves fall,- everything passes away, and men are passing away too.
71:71	N:N	N:N	But the great man's daughters are still young, and little Ida is a rose as fair to look upon as on the day when the shipbuilder first saw her.
72:72	N:N	N:N	I often tumbled her long, brown hair, while she stood in the garden by the apple-tree, musing, and not heeding how I strewed the blossoms on her hair, and dishevelled it; or sometimes, while she stood gazing at the red sun and the golden sky through the opening branches of the dark, thick foliage of the garden trees.
73:73	N:N	N:N	Her sister Joanna was bright and slender as a lily; she had a tall and lofty carriage and figure, though, like her mother, rather stiff in back.
74:74	N:N	N:N	She was very fond of walking through the great hall, where hung the portraits of her ancestors.
75:75	N:N	N:N	The women were represented in dresses of velvet and silk, with tiny little hats, embroidered with pearls, on their braided hair.
76:76	N:N	N:N	They were all handsome women.
77:77	N:N	N:N	The gentlemen appeared clad in steel, or in rich cloaks lined with squirrel's fur; they wore little ruffs, and swords at their sides.
78:78	N:N	N:N	Where would Joanna's place be on that wall some day? and how would he look,- her noble lord and husband?
79:79	N:N	N:N	This is what she thought of, and often spoke of in a low voice to herself.
80:80	N:N	N:N	I heard it as I swept into the long hall, and turned round to come out again.
81:81	N:N	N:N	Anna Dorothea, the pale hyacinth, a child of fourteen, was quiet and thoughtful; her large, deep, blue eyes had a dreamy look, but a childlike smile still played round her mouth.
82:82	N:N	N:N	I was not able to blow it away, neither did I wish to do so.
83:83	N:N	N:N	We have met in the garden, in the hollow lane, in the field and meadow, where she gathered herbs and flowers which she knew would be useful to her father in preparing the drugs and mixtures he was always concocting.
84:84	N:N	N:N	Waldemar Daa was arrogant and proud, but he was also a learned man, and knew a great deal.
85:85	N:N	N:N	It was no secret, and many opinions were expressed on what he did.
86:86	N:N	N:N	In his fireplace there was a fire, even in summer time.
87:87	N:N	N:N	He would lock himself in his room, and for days the fire would be kept burning; but he did not talk much of what he was doing.
88:88	N:N	N:N	The secret powers of nature are generally discovered in solitude, and did he not soon expect to find out the art of making the greatest of all good things- the art of making gold?
89:89	N:N	N:N	So he fondly hoped; therefore the chimney smoked and the fire crackled so constantly.
90:90	N:N	N:N	Yes, I was there too," said the Wind.
91:91	D:N	D:N	"'Leave it alone,' I sang down the chimney; 'leave it alone, it will all end in smoke, air, coals, and ashes, and you will burn your fingers.'
92:92	D:N	D:-	But Waldemar Daa did not leave it alone, and all he possessed vanished like smoke blown by me.
93:93	N:N	N:-	The splendid black horses, where are they?
94:94	N:N	N:-	What became of the cows in the field, the old gold and silver vessels in cupboards and chests, and even the house and home itself?
95:95	N:N	N:-	It was easy to melt all these away in the gold-making crucible, and yet obtain no gold.
96:96	N:N	N:-	And so it was.
97:97	N:N	S:-	Empty are the barns and store-rooms, the cellars and cupboards; the servants decreased in number, and the mice multiplied.
98:98	N:N	S:-	First one window became broken, and then another, so that I could get in at other places besides the door.
99:99	D:N	D:N	'Where the chimney smokes, the meal is being cooked,' says the proverb; but here a chimney smoked that devoured all the meals for the sake of gold.
100:100	N:N	S:N	I blew round the courtyard," said the Wind, "like a watchman blowing his home, but no watchman was there.
101:101	N:N	S:-	I twirled the weather-cock round on the summit of the tower, and it creaked like the snoring of a warder, but no warder was there; nothing but mice and rats.
102:102	N:N	S:-	Poverty laid the table-cloth; poverty sat in the wardrobe and in the larder.
103:103	N:N	S:-	The door fell off its hinges, cracks and fissures made their appearance everywhere; so that I could go in and out at pleasure, and that is how I know all about it.
104:104	N:N	N:-	Amid smoke and ashes, sorrow, and sleepless nights, the hair and beard of the master of the house turned gray, and deep furrows showed themselves around his temples; his skin turned pale and yellow, while his eyes still looked eagerly for gold, the longed-for gold, and the result of his labor was debt instead of gain.
105:105	N:N	S:-	I blew the smoke and ashes into his face and beard; I moaned through the broken window-panes, and the yawning clefts in the walls; I blew into the chests and drawers belonging to his daughters, wherein lay the clothes that had become faded and threadbare, from being worn over and over again.
106:106	N:N	S:S	Such a song had not been sung, at the children's cradle as I sung now.
107:107	N:N	S:S	The lordly life had changed to a life of penury.
108:108	N:N	S:N	I was the only one who rejoiced aloud in that castle," said the Wind.
109:109	N:N	N:N	"At last I snowed them up, and they say snow keeps people warm.
110:110	N:N	N:-	It was good for them, for they had no wood, and the forest, from which they might have obtained it, had been cut down.
111:111	N:N	N:S	The frost was very bitter, and I rushed through loop-holes and passages, over gables and roofs with keen and cutting swiftness.
112:112	N:N	N:S	The three high-born daughters were lying in bed because of the cold, and their father crouching beneath his leather coverlet.
113:113	N:N	S:S	Nothing to eat, nothing to burn, no fire on the hearth!
114:114	N:N	S:S	Here was a life for high-born people!
115:115	D:N	D:S	'Give it up, give it up!'
116:116	D:N	D:S	But my Lord Daa would not do that.
117:117	N:N	N:N	'After winter, spring will come,' he said, 'after want, good times.
118:118	N:N	N:N	We must not lose patience, we must learn to wait.
119:119	N:N	N:-	Now my horses and lands are all mortgaged, it is indeed high time; but gold will come at last- at Easter.'
120:120	N:N	N:-	"I heard him as he thus spoke; he was looking at a spider's web, and he continued, 'Thou cunning little weaver, thou dost teach me perseverance.
121:121	N:N	N:-	Let any one tear thy web, and thou wilt begin again and repair it.
122:122	N:N	N:N	Let it be entirely destroyed, thou wilt resolutely begin to make another till it is completed.
123:123	N:N	N:N	So ought we to do, if we wish to succeed at last.'
124:124	N:N	N:N	"It was the morning of Easter-day.
125:125	N:N	H:H	The bells sounded from the neighboring church, and the sun seemed to rejoice in the sky.
126:126	H:N	H:-	The master of the castle had watched through the night, in feverish excitement, and had been melting and cooling, distilling and mixing.
127:127	Sa:Sa	N:S	I heard him sighing like a soul in despair; I heard him praying, and I noticed how he held his breath.
128:128	N:N	N:S	The lamp burnt out, but he did not observe it.
129:129	N:N	N:A	I blew up the fire in the coals on the hearth, and it threw a red glow on his ghastly white face, lighting it up with a glare, while his sunken eyes looked out wildly from their cavernous depths, and appeared to grow larger and more prominent, as if they would burst from their sockets.
130:130	Su+:N	+:+	'Look at the alchymic glass,' he cried; 'something glows in the crucible, pure and heavy.'
131:131	Su+:N	+:H	He lifted it with a trembling hand, and exclaimed in a voice of agitation, 'Gold! gold!'
132:132	H:H	+:H	He was quite giddy, I could have blown him down," said the Wind; "but I only fanned the glowing coals, and accompanied him through the door to the room where his daughter sat shivering.
133:133	N:N	N:N	His coat was powdered with ashes, and there were ashes in his beard and in his tangled hair.
134:134	N:N	N:N	He stood erect, and held high in the air the brittle glass that contained his costly treasure.
135:135	H:N	+:H	'Found! found!
136:136	H:N	+:-	Gold! gold!' he shouted, again holding the glass aloft, that it might flash in the sunshine; but his hand trembled, and the alchymic glass fell from it, clattering to the ground, and brake in a thousand pieces.
137:137	N:N	-:S	The last bubble of his happiness had burst, with a whiz and a whir, and I rushed away from the gold-maker's house.
138:138	N:N	N:N	"Late in the autumn, when the days were short, and the mist sprinkled cold drops on the berries and the leafless branches, I came back in fresh spirits, rushed through the air, swept the sky clear, and snapped off the dry twigs, which is certainly no great labor to do, yet it must be done.
139:139	N:N	N:N	There was another kind of sweeping taking place at Waldemar Daa's, in the castle of Borreby.
140:140	N:N	N:-	His enemy, Owe Ramel, of Basnas, was there, with the mortgage of the house and everything it contained, in his pocket.
141:141	N:N	N:-	I rattled the broken windows, beat against the old rotten doors, and whistled through cracks and crevices, so that Mr. Owe Ramel did not much like to remain there.
142:142	Sa:Sa	S:S	Ida and Anna Dorothea wept bitterly, Joanna stood, pale and proud, biting her lips till the blood came; but what could that avail?
143:143	N:N	N:N	Owe Ramel offered Waldemar Daa permission to remain in the house till the end of his life.
144:144	N:N	S:-	No one thanked him for the offer, and I saw the ruined old gentleman lift his head, and throw it back more proudly than ever.
145:145	N:N	N:-	Then I rushed against the house and the old lime-trees with such force, that one of the thickest branches, a decayed one, was broken off, and the branch fell at the entrance, and remained there.
146:146	N:N	N:N	It might have been used as a broom, if any one had wanted to sweep the place out, and a grand sweeping-out there really was; I thought it would be so.
147:147	N:N	S:-	It was hard for any one to preserve composure on such a day; but these people had strong wills, as unbending as their hard fortune.
148:148	N:N	S:-	There was nothing they could call their own, excepting the clothes they wore.
149:149	N:N	N:S	Yes, there was one thing more, an alchymist's glass, a new one, which had been lately bought, and filled with what could be gathered from the ground of the treasure which had promised so much but failed in keeping its promise.
150:150	N:N	S:N	Waldemar Daa hid the glass in his bosom, and, taking his stick in his hand, the once rich gentleman passed with his daughters out of the house of Borreby.
151:151	N:N	S:N	I blew coldly upon his flustered cheeks, I stroked his gray beard and his long white hair, and I sang as well as I was able, 'Whir-r-r, whir-r-r.
152:152	N:N	S:N	Gone away!
153:153	N:N	S:N	Gone away!'
154:154	N:N	S:S	Ida walked on one side of the old man, and Anna Dorothea on the other; Joanna turned round, as they left the entrance.
155:155	N:N	S:S	Why?
156:156	N:N	S:S	Fortune would not turn because she turned.
157:157	N:N	S:S	She looked at the stone in the walls which had once formed part of the castle of Marck Stig, and perhaps she thought of his daughters and of the old song,-
158:158	N:N	S:S	"The eldest and youngest, hand-in-hand, Went forth alone to a distant land."
159:159	N:N	N:S	These were only two; here there were three, and their father with them also.
160:160	N:N	S:S	They walked along the high-road, where once they had driven in their splendid carriage; they went forth with their father as beggars.
161:161	N:N	S:S	They wandered across an open field to a mud hut, which they rented for a dollar and a half a year, a new home, with bare walls and empty cupboards.
162:162	N:N	S:S	Crows and magpies fluttered about them, and cried, as if in contempt, 'Caw, caw, turned out of our nest- caw, caw,' as they had done in the wood at Borreby, when the trees were felled.
163:163	D:N	S:N	Daa and his daughters could not help hearing it, so I blew about their ears to drown the noise; what use was it that they should listen?
164:164	N:N	S:N	So they went to live in the mud hut in the open field, and I wandered away, over moor and meadow, through bare bushes and leafless forests, to the open sea, to the broad shores in other lands, 'Whir-r-r, whir-r-r!
165:165	N:N	N:N	Away, away!' year after year."
166:166	N:N	N:N	And what became of Waldemar Daa and his daughters?
167:167	N:N	N:N	Listen; the Wind will tell us: "The last I saw of them was the pale hyacinth, Anna Dorothea.
168:168	N:N	N:N	She was old and bent then; for fifty years had passed and she had outlived them all.
169:169	N:N	N:N	She could relate the history.
170:170	N:N	N:N	Yonder, on the heath, near the town of Wiborg, in Jutland, stood the fine new house of the canon.
171:171	N:N	N:N	It was built of red brick, with projecting gables.
172:172	N:N	N:N	It was inhabited, for the smoke curled up thickly from the chimneys.
173:173	N:N	N:N	The canon's gentle lady and her beautiful daughters sat in the bay-window, and looked over the hawthorn hedge of the garden towards the brown heath.
174:174	N:N	N:N	What were they looking at?
175:175	N:N	N:N	Their glances fell upon a stork's nest, which was built upon an old tumbledown hut.
176:176	N:N	N:N	The roof, as far as one existed at all, was covered with moss and lichen.
177:177	N:N	N:N	The stork's nest covered the greater part of it, and that alone was in a good condition; for it was kept in order by the stork himself.
178:178	N:N	N:N	That is a house to be looked at, and not to be touched," said the Wind.
179:179	N:N	N:N	"For the sake of the stork's nest it had been allowed to remain, although it is a blot on the landscape.
180:180	N:N	N:N	They did not like to drive the stork away; therefore the old shed was left standing, and the poor woman who dwelt in it allowed to stay.
181:181	N:N	N:N	She had the Egyptian bird to thank for that; or was it perchance her reward for having once interceded for the preservation of the nest of its black brother in the forest of Borreby?
182:182	N:N	N:N	At that time she, the poor woman, was a young child, a white hyacinth in a rich garden.
183:183	N:N	N:+	She remembered that time well; for it was Anna Dorothea.
184:184	Sa:N	N:N	"'O-h, o-h,' she sighed; for people can sigh like the moaning of the wind among the reeds and rushes.
185:185	Sa:N	S:N	'O-h, o-h,' she would say, 'no bell sounded at thy burial, Waldemar Daa.
186:186	N:N	S:S	The poor school-boys did not even sing a psalm when the former lord of Borreby was laid in the earth to rest.
187:187	N:N	S:S	O-h, everything has an end, even misery.
188:188	N:N	N:S	Sister Ida became the wife of a peasant; that was the hardest trial which befell our father, that the husband of his own daughter should be a miserable serf, whom his owner could place for punishment on the wooden horse.
189:189	Sa:Sa	S:S	I suppose he is under the ground now; and Ida- alas! alas! it is not ended yet; miserable that I am!
190:190	Sa:N	S:S	Kind Heaven, grant me that I may die.'
191:191	N:N	S:S	"That was Anna Dorothea's prayer in the wretched hut that was left standing for the sake of the stork.
192:192	N:N	N:S	I took pity on the proudest of the sisters," said the Wind.
193:193	N:N	N:N	"Her courage was like that of a man; and in man's clothes she served as a sailor on board ship.
194:194	N:N	N:N	She was of few words, and of a dark countenance; but she did not know how to climb, so I blew her overboard before any one found out that she was a woman; and, in my opinion, that was well done," said the Wind.
195:195	N:N	N:+	On such another Easter morning as that on which Waldemar Daa imagined he had discovered the art of making gold, I heard the tones of a psalm under the stork's nest, and within the crumbling walls.
196:196	N:N	N:N	It was Anna Dorothea's last song.
197:197	N:N	N:N	There was no window in the hut, only a hole in the wall; and the sun rose like a globe of burnished gold, and looked through.
198:198	N:N	N:N	With what splendor he filled that dismal dwelling!
199:199	Sa:N	N:N	Her eyes were glazing, and her heart breaking; but so it would have been, even had the sun not shone that morning on Anna Dorothea.
200:200	N:N	S:S	The stork's nest had secured her a home till her death.
201:201	N:N	N:S	I sung over her grave; I sung at her father's grave.
202:202	N:N	N:S	I know where it lies, and where her grave is too, but nobody else knows it.
203:203	N:N	N:S	"New times now; all is changed.
204:204	N:N	N:S	The old high-road is lost amid cultivated fields; the new one now winds along over covered graves; and soon the railway will come, with its train of carriages, and rush over graves where lie those whose very names are forgoten.
205:205	Su+:N	N:S	All passed away, passed away!
206:206	N:N	N:S	"This is the story of Waldemar Daa and his daughters.
207:207	N:N	N:S	Tell it better, any of you, if you know how," said the Wind; and he rushed away, and was gone.
0:0	N:N	N:N	A SOLDIER came marching along the high road: "Left, right- left, right."
1:1	N:N	N:N	He had his knapsack on his back, and a sword at his side; he had been to the wars, and was now returning home.
2:2	N:N	N:F	As he walked on, he met a very frightful-looking old witch in the road.
3:3	N:N	N:+	Her under-lip hung quite down on her breast, and she stopped and said, "Good evening, soldier; you have a very fine sword, and a large knapsack, and you are a real soldier; so you shall have as much money as ever you like."
4:4	H:N	H:+	"Thank you, old witch," said the soldier.
5:5	N:N	N:N	"Do you see that large tree," said the witch, pointing to a tree which stood beside them.
6:6	N:N	N:N	"Well, it is quite hollow inside, and you must climb to the top, when you will see a hole, through which you can let yourself down into the tree to a great depth.
7:7	N:N	N:N	I will tie a rope round your body, so that I can pull you up again when you call out to me."
8:8	N:N	N:N	"But what am I to do, down there in the tree?" asked the soldier.
9:9	N:N	N:N	"Get money," she replied; "for you must know that when you reach the ground under the tree, you will find yourself in a large hall, lighted up by three hundred lamps; you will then see three doors, which can be easily opened, for the keys are in all the locks.
10:10	N:N	N:N	On entering the first of the chambers, to which these doors lead, you will see a large chest, standing in the middle of the floor, and upon it a dog seated, with a pair of eyes as large as teacups.
11:11	N:N	N:N	But you need not be at all afraid of him; I will give you my blue checked apron, which you must spread upon the floor, and then boldly seize hold of the dog, and place him upon it.
12:12	N:N	N:N	You can then open the chest, and take from it as many pence as you please, they are only copper pence; but if you would rather have silver money, you must go into the second chamber.
13:13	N:N	N:N	Here you will find another dog, with eyes as big as mill-wheels; but do not let that trouble you.
14:14	N:N	N:N	Place him upon my apron, and then take what money you please.
15:15	N:N	N:N	If, however, you like gold best, enter the third chamber, where there is another chest full of it.
16:16	N:N	N:N	The dog who sits on this chest is very dreadful; his eyes are as big as a tower, but do not mind him.
17:17	N:N	N:N	If he also is placed upon my apron, he cannot hurt you, and you may take from the chest what gold you will."
18:18	N:N	N:F	"This is not a bad story," said the soldier; "but what am I to give you, you old witch? for, of course, you do not mean to tell me all this for nothing."
19:19	N:N	N:N	"No," said the witch; "but I do not ask for a single penny.
20:20	N:N	N:N	Only promise to bring me an old tinder-box, which my grandmother left behind the last time she went down there."
21:21	H:N	N:N	"Very well; I promise.
22:22	N:N	N:N	Now tie the rope round my body."
23:23	N:N	N:N	"Here it is," replied the witch; "and here is my blue checked apron."
24:24	N:N	N:N	As soon as the rope was tied, the soldier climbed up the tree, and let himself down through the hollow to the ground beneath; and here he found, as the witch had told him, a large hall, in which many hundred lamps were all burning.
25:25	N:N	N:N	Then he opened the first door.
26:26	Su+:N	+:F	"Ah!" there sat the dog, with the eyes as large as teacups, staring at him.
27:27	N:N	N:N	"You're a pretty fellow," said the soldier, seizing him, and placing him on the witch's apron, while he filled his pockets from the chest with as many pieces as they would hold.
28:28	N:N	N:N	Then he closed the lid, seated the dog upon it again, and walked into another chamber, And, sure enough, there sat the dog with eyes as big as mill-wheels.
29:29	N:N	N:N	"You had better not look at me in that way," said the soldier; "you will make your eyes water;" and then he seated him also upon the apron, and opened the chest.
30:30	N:N	N:N	But when he saw what a quantity of silver money it contained, he very quickly threw away all the coppers he had taken, and filled his pockets and his knapsack with nothing but silver.
31:31	N:N	N:N	Then he went into the third room, and there the dog was really hideous; his eyes were, truly, as big as towers, and they turned round and round in his head like wheels.
32:32	N:N	N:-	"Good morning," said the soldier, touching his cap, for he had never seen such a dog in his life.
33:33	N:N	N:N	But after looking at him more closely, he thought he had been civil enough, so he placed him on the floor, and opened the chest.
34:34	Su+:N	+:+	Good gracious, what a quantity of gold there was! enough to buy all the sugar-sticks of the sweet-stuff women; all the tin soldiers, whips, and rocking-horses in the world, or even the whole town itself There was, indeed, an immense quantity.
35:35	N:N	H:H	So the soldier now threw away all the silver money he had taken, and filled his pockets and his knapsack with gold instead; and not only his pockets and his knapsack, but even his cap and boots, so that he could scarcely walk.
36:36	N:N	H:N	He was really rich now; so he replaced the dog on the chest, closed the door, and called up through the tree, "Now pull me out, you old witch."
37:37	N:N	N:N	"Have you got the tinder-box?" asked the witch.
38:38	N:N	N:N	"No; I declare I quite forgot it."
39:39	N:N	N:H	So he went back and fetched the tinderbox, and then the witch drew him up out of the tree, and he stood again in the high road, with his pockets, his knapsack, his cap, and his boots full of gold.
40:40	N:N	N:N	"What are you going to do with the tinder-box?" asked the soldier.
41:41	A:N	N:A	"That is nothing to you," replied the witch; "you have the money, now give me the tinder-box."
42:42	A:N	A:A	"I tell you what," said the soldier, "if you don't tell me what you are going to do with it, I will draw my sword and cut off your head."
43:43	A:N	A:A	"No," said the witch.
44:44	Su-:N	-:A	The soldier immediately cut off her head, and there she lay on the ground.
45:45	N:N	N:N	Then he tied up all his money in her apron. and slung it on his back like a bundle, put the tinderbox in his pocket, and walked off to the nearest town.
46:46	N:N	N:H	It was a very nice town, and he put up at the best inn, and ordered a dinner of all his favorite dishes, for now he was rich and had plenty of money.
47:47	N:N	N:N	The servant, who cleaned his boots, thought they certainly were a shabby pair to be worn by such a rich gentleman, for he had not yet bought any new ones.
48:48	N:N	N:H	The next day, however, he procured some good clothes and proper boots, so that our soldier soon became known as a fine gentleman, and the people visited him, and told him all the wonders that were to be seen in the town, and of the king's beautiful daughter, the princess.
49:49	N:N	N:N	"Where can I see her?" asked the soldier.
50:50	N:N	N:N	"She is not to be seen at all," they said; "she lives in a large copper castle, surrounded by walls and towers.
51:51	N:Sa	N:S	No one but the king himself can pass in or out, for there has been a prophecy that she will marry a common soldier, and the king cannot bear to think of such a marriage."
52:52	N:N	N:N	"I should like very much to see her," thought the soldier; but he could not obtain permission to do so.
53:53	H:H	H:H	However, he passed a very pleasant time; went to the theatre, drove in the king's garden, and gave a great deal of money to the poor, which was very good of him; he remembered what it had been in olden times to be without a shilling.
54:54	H:H	H:H	Now he was rich, had fine clothes, and many friends, who all declared he was a fine fellow and a real gentleman, and all this gratified him exceedingly.
55:55	N:N	N:S	But his money would not last forever; and as he spent and gave away a great deal daily, and received none, he found himself at last with only two shillings left.
56:56	N:N	S:S	So he was obliged to leave his elegant rooms, and live in a little garret under the roof, where he had to clean his own boots, and even mend them with a large needle.
57:57	N:N	S:S	None of his friends came to see him, there were too many stairs to mount up.
58:58	N:N	N:N	One dark evening, he had not even a penny to buy a candle; then all at once he remembered that there was a piece of candle stuck in the tinder-box, which he had brought from the old tree, into which the witch had helped him.
59:59	Su+:N	+:+	He found the tinder-box, but no sooner had he struck a few sparks from the flint and steel, than the door flew open and the dog with eyes as big as teacups, whom he had seen while down in the tree, stood before him, and said, "What orders, master?"
60:60	H:N	H:+	"Hallo," said the soldier; "well this is a pleasant tinderbox, if it brings me all I wish for."
61:61	N:N	N:N	"Bring me some money," said he to the dog.
62:62	N:N	+:+	He was gone in a moment, and presently returned, carrying a large bag of coppers in his month.
63:63	N:N	+:+	The soldier very soon discovered after this the value of the tinder-box.
64:64	N:N	N:N	If he struck the flint once, the dog who sat on the chest of copper money made his appearance; if twice, the dog came from the chest of silver; and if three times, the dog with eyes like towers, who watched over the gold.
65:65	N:N	H:H	The soldier had now plenty of money; he returned to his elegant rooms, and reappeared in his fine clothes, so that his friends knew him again directly, and made as much of him as before.
66:66	N:N	N:N	After a while he began to think it was very strange that no one could get a look at the princess.
67:67	N:N	N:N	"Every one says she is very beautiful," thought he to himself; "but what is the use of that if she is to be shut up in a copper castle surrounded by so many towers.
68:68	N:N	N:N	Can I by any means get to see her.
69:69	N:N	N:N	Stop! where is my tinder-box?"
70:70	N:N	N:N	Then he struck a light, and in a moment the dog, with eyes as big as teacups, stood before him.
71:71	N:N	N:N	"It is midnight," said the soldier, "yet I should very much like to see the princess, if only for a moment."
72:72	Su+:N	+:+	The dog disappeared instantly, and before the soldier could even look round, he returned with the princess.
73:73	N:N	N:H	She was lying on the dog's back asleep, and looked so lovely, that every one who saw her would know she was a real princess.
74:74	N:N	N:H	The soldier could not help kissing her, true soldier as he was.
75:75	Su+:N	N:N	Then the dog ran back with the princess; but in the morning, while at breakfast with the king and queen, she told them what a singular dream she had had during the night, of a dog and a soldier, that she had ridden on the dog's back, and been kissed by the soldier.
76:76	N:N	N:N	"That is a very pretty story, indeed," said the queen.
77:77	N:N	N:F	So the next night one of the old ladies of the court was set to watch by the princess's bed, to discover whether it really was a dream, or what else it might be.
78:78	N:Sa	N:S	The soldier longed very much to see the princess once more, so he sent for the dog again in the night to fetch her, and to run with her as fast as ever he could.
79:79	N:N	N:N	But the old lady put on water boots, and ran after him as quickly as he did, and found that he carried the princess into a large house.
80:80	N:N	N:N	She thought it would help her to remember the place if she made a large cross on the door with a piece of chalk.
81:81	N:N	N:N	Then she went home to bed, and the dog presently returned with the princess.
82:82	N:N	N:N	But when he saw that a cross had been made on the door of the house, where the soldier lived, he took another piece of chalk and made crosses on all the doors in the town, so that the lady-in-waiting might not be able to find out the right door.
83:83	N:N	N:N	Early the next morning the king and queen accompanied the lady and all the officers of the household, to see where the princess had been.
84:84	N:N	N:N	"Here it is," said the king, when they came to the first door with a cross on it.
85:85	N:N	N:N	No, my dear husband, it must be that one," said the queen, pointing to a second door having a cross also.
86:86	Su-:Su-	-:-	"And here is one, and there is another!" they all exclaimed; for there were crosses on all the doors in every direction.
87:87	D:Sa	D:S	So they felt it would be useless to search any farther.
88:88	N:N	N:N	But the queen was a very clever woman; she could do a great deal more than merely ride in a carriage.
89:89	N:N	N:N	She took her large gold scissors, cut a piece of silk into squares, and made a neat little bag.
90:90	N:N	N:N	This bag she filled with buckwheat flour, and tied it round the princess's neck; and then she cut a small hole in the bag, so that the flour might be scattered on the ground as the princess went along.
91:91	N:H	N:H	During the night, the dog came again and carried the princess on his back, and ran with her to the soldier, who loved her very much, and wished that he had been a prince, so that he might have her for a wife.
92:92	N:N	N:N	The dog did not observe how the flour ran out of the bag all the way from the castle wall to the soldier's house, and even up to the window, where he had climbed with the princess.
93:93	Su-:N	-:S	Therefore in the morning the king and queen found out where their daughter had been, and the soldier was taken up and put in prison.
94:94	N:Sa	A:S	Oh, how dark and disagreeable it was as he sat there, and the people said to him, "To-morrow you will be hanged."
95:95	N:N	S:S	It was not very pleasant news, and besides, he had left the tinder-box at the inn.
96:96	F:N	F:S	In the morning he could see through the iron grating of the little window how the people were hastening out of the town to see him hanged; he heard the drums beating, and saw the soldiers marching.
97:97	N:N	N:S	Every one ran out to look at them. and a shoemaker's boy, with a leather apron and slippers on, galloped by so fast, that one of his slippers flew off and struck against the wall where the soldier sat looking through the iron grating.
98:98	N:N	N:N	"Hallo, you shoemaker's boy, you need not be in such a hurry," cried the soldier to him.
99:99	N:N	N:N	"There will be nothing to see till I come; but if you will run to the house where I have been living, and bring me my tinder-box, you shall have four shillings, but you must put your best foot foremost."
100:100	H:H	H:H	The shoemaker's boy liked the idea of getting the four shillings, so he ran very fast and fetched the tinder-box, and gave it to the soldier.
101:101	N:N	N:N	And now we shall see what happened.
102:102	N:N	N:N	Outside the town a large gibbet had been erected, round which stood the soldiers and several thousands of people.
103:103	N:N	N:N	The king and the queen sat on splendid thrones opposite to the judges and the whole council.
104:104	N:N	N:S	The soldier already stood on the ladder; but as they were about to place the rope around his neck, he said that an innocent request was often granted to a poor criminal before he suffered death.
105:105	N:N	N:S	He wished very much to smoke a pipe, as it would be the last pipe he should ever smoke in the world.
106:106	N:N	N:-	The king could not refuse this request, so the soldier took his tinder-box, and struck fire, once, twice, thrice,- and there in a moment stood all the dogs;- the one with eyes as big as teacups, the one with eyes as large as mill-wheels, and the third, whose eyes were like towers.
107:107	F:N	F:F	"Help me now, that I may not be hanged," cried the soldier.
108:108	N:N	-:A	And the dogs fell upon the judges and all the councillors; seized one by the legs, and another by the nose, and tossed them many feet high in the air, so that they fell down and were dashed to pieces.
109:109	D:N	F:F	"I will not be touched," said the king.
110:110	N:N	-:A	But the largest dog seized him, as well as the queen, and threw them after the others.
111:111	N:N	F:F	Then the soldiers and all the people were afraid, and cried, "Good soldier, you shall be our king, and you shall marry the beautiful princess."
112:112	N:N	H:H	So they placed the soldier in the king's carriage, and the three dogs ran on in front and cried "Hurrah!" and the little boys whistled through their fingers, and the soldiers presented arms.
113:113	H:H	H:H	The princess came out of the copper castle, and became queen, which was very pleasing to her.
114:114	N:N	H:H	The wedding festivities lasted a whole week, and the dogs sat at the table, and stared with all their eyes.
0:0	N:N	N:N	THERE were once five-and-twenty tin soldiers, who were all brothers, for they had been made out of the same old tin spoon.
1:1	N:N	N:N	They shouldered arms and looked straight before them, and wore a splendid uniform, red and blue.
2:2	H:N	H:H	The first thing in the world they ever heard were the words, "Tin soldiers!" uttered by a little boy, who clapped his hands with delight when the lid of the box, in which they lay, was taken off.
3:3	N:N	H:H	They were given him for a birthday present, and he stood at the table to set them up.
4:4	N:N	N:N	The soldiers were all exactly alike, excepting one, who had only one leg; he had been left to the last, and then there was not enough of the melted tin to finish him, so they made him to stand firmly on one leg, and this caused him to be very remarkable.
5:5	N:N	N:N	The table on which the tin soldiers stood, was covered with other playthings, but the most attractive to the eye was a pretty little paper castle.
6:6	N:N	N:N	Through the small windows the rooms could be seen.
7:7	N:N	N:N	In front of the castle a number of little trees surrounded a piece of looking-glass, which was intended to represent a transparent lake.
8:8	N:N	N:N	Swans, made of wax, swam on the lake, and were reflected in it.
9:9	N:N	N:+	All this was very pretty, but the prettiest of all was a tiny little lady, who stood at the open door of the castle; she, also, was made of paper, and she wore a dress of clear muslin, with a narrow blue ribbon over her shoulders just like a scarf.
10:10	N:N	N:N	In front of these was fixed a glittering tinsel rose, as large as her whole face.
11:11	N:N	N:+	The little lady was a dancer, and she stretched out both her arms, and raised one of her legs so high, that the tin soldier could not see it at all, and he thought that she, like himself, had only one leg.
12:12	N:N	N:-	"That is the wife for me," he thought; "but she is too grand, and lives in a castle, while I have only a box to live in, five-and-twenty of us altogether, that is no place for her.
13:13	H:N	H:N	Still I must try and make her acquaintance."
14:14	N:N	N:N	Then he laid himself at full length on the table behind a snuff-box that stood upon it, so that he could peep at the little delicate lady, who continued to stand on one leg without losing her balance.
15:15	N:N	N:N	When evening came, the other tin soldiers were all placed in the box, and the people of the house went to bed.
16:16	N:N	N:N	Then the playthings began to have their own games together, to pay visits, to have sham fights, and to give balls.
17:17	N:N	N:-	The tin soldiers rattled in their box; they wanted to get out and join the amusements, but they could not open the lid.
18:18	H:N	H:+	The nut-crackers played at leap-frog, and the pencil jumped about the table.
19:19	N:N	H:+	There was such a noise that the canary woke up and began to talk, and in poetry too.
20:20	N:N	N:N	Only the tin soldier and the dancer remained in their places.
21:21	N:N	N:N	She stood on tiptoe, with her legs stretched out, as firmly as he did on his one leg.
22:22	N:N	N:N	He never took his eyes from her for even a moment.
23:23	N:N	-:-	The clock struck twelve, and, with a bounce, up sprang the lid of the snuff-box; but, instead of snuff, there jumped up a little black goblin; for the snuff-box was a toy puzzle.
24:24	A:N	-:-	"Tin soldier," said the goblin, "don't wish for what does not belong to you.
25:25	N:N	N:N	But the tin soldier pretended not to hear.
26:26	D:N	-:-	"Very well; wait till to-morrow, then," said the goblin.
27:27	N:N	N:-	When the children came in the next morning, they placed the tin soldier in the window.
28:28	N:N	-:-	Now, whether it was the goblin who did it, or the draught, is not known, but the window flew open, and out fell the tin soldier, heels over head, from the third story, into the street beneath.
29:29	N:N	-:-	It was a terrible fall; for he came head downwards, his helmet and his bayonet stuck in between the flagstones, and his one leg up in the air.
30:30	N:N	-:-	The servant maid and the little boy went down stairs directly to look for him; but he was nowhere to be seen, although once they nearly trod upon him.
31:31	N:N	-:-	If he had called out, "Here I am," it would have been all right, but he was too proud to cry out for help while he wore a uniform.
32:32	N:N	-:-	Presently it began to rain, and the drops fell faster and faster, till there was a heavy shower.
33:33	Su+:N	+:-	When it was over, two boys happened to pass by, and one of them said, "Look, there is a tin soldier.
34:34	N:N	N:-	He ought to have a boat to sail in."
35:35	H:H	H:-	So they made a boat out of a newspaper, and placed the tin soldier in it, and sent him sailing down the gutter, while the two boys ran by the side of it, and clapped their hands.
36:36	N:N	+:-	Good gracious, what large waves arose in that gutter! and how fast the stream rolled on! for the rain had been very heavy.
37:37	F:N	N:-	The paper boat rocked up and down, and turned itself round sometimes so quickly that the tin soldier trembled; yet he remained firm; his countenance did not change; he looked straight before him, and shouldered his musket.
38:38	N:N	N:-	Suddenly the boat shot under a bridge which formed a part of a drain, and then it was as dark as the tin soldier's box.
39:39	F:N	N:-	"Where am I going now?" thought he.
40:40	N:N	N:-	"This is the black goblin's fault, I am sure.
41:41	N:N	N:-	Ah, well, if the little lady were only here with me in the boat, I should not care for any darkness."
42:42	N:N	-:-	Suddenly there appeared a great water-rat, who lived in the drain.
43:43	N:N	N:-	"Have you a passport?" asked the rat, "give it to me at once."
44:44	N:N	N:-	But the tin soldier remained silent and held his musket tighter than ever.
45:45	N:N	N:-	The boat sailed on and the rat followed it.
46:46	N:N	-:-	How he did gnash his teeth and cry out to the bits of wood and straw, "Stop him, stop him; he has not paid toll, and has not shown his pass."
47:47	N:N	N:-	But the stream rushed on stronger and stronger.
48:48	N:N	N:-	The tin soldier could already see daylight shining where the arch ended.
49:49	N:N	-:-	Then he heard a roaring sound quite terrible enough to frighten the bravest man.
50:50	N:N	-:-	At the end of the tunnel the drain fell into a large canal over a steep place, which made it as dangerous for him as a waterfall would be to us.
51:51	N:N	-:-	He was too close to it to stop, so the boat rushed on, and the poor tin soldier could only hold himself as stiffly as possible, without moving an eyelid, to show that he was not afraid.
52:52	N:N	-:-	The boat whirled round three or four times, and then filled with water to the very edge; nothing could save it from sinking.
53:53	N:N	-:-	He now stood up to his neck in water, while deeper and deeper sank the boat, and the paper became soft and loose with the wet, till at last the water closed over the soldier's head.
54:54	N:N	-:-	He thought of the elegant little dancer whom he should never see again, and the words of the song sounded in his ears-
55:55	N:N	-:-	"Farewell, warrior! ever brave, Drifting onward to thy grave."
56:56	N:N	-:-	Then the paper boat fell to pieces, and the soldier sank into the water and immediately afterwards was swallowed up by a great fish.
57:57	N:N	-:-	Oh how dark it was inside the fish!
58:58	N:N	-:-	A great deal darker than in the tunnel, and narrower too, but the tin soldier continued firm, and lay at full length shouldering his musket.
59:59	N:N	N:-	The fish swam to and fro, making the most wonderful movements, but at last he became quite still.
60:60	N:N	N:+	After a while, a flash of lightning seemed to pass through him, and then the daylight approached, and a voice cried out, "I declare here is the tin soldier."
61:61	N:N	N:H	The fish had been caught, taken to the market and sold to the cook, who took him into the kitchen and cut him open with a large knife.
62:62	N:N	N:H	She picked up the soldier and held him by the waist between her finger and thumb, and carried him into the room.
63:63	N:N	N:-	They were all anxious to see this wonderful soldier who had travelled about inside a fish; but he was not at all proud.
64:64	N:N	+:N	They placed him on the table, and- how many curious things do happen in the world!- there he was in the very same room from the window of which he had fallen, there were the same children, the same playthings, standing on the table, and the pretty castle with the elegant little dancer at the door; she still balanced herself on one leg, and held up the other, so she was as firm as himself.
65:65	H:H	H:H	It touched the tin soldier so much to see her that he almost wept tin tears, but he kept them back.
66:66	N:N	H:H	He only looked at her and they both remained silent.
67:67	N:N	N:-	Presently one of the little boys took up the tin soldier, and threw him into the stove.
68:68	N:N	N:-	He had no reason for doing so, therefore it must have been the fault of the black goblin who lived in the snuff-box.
69:69	N:N	N:-	The flames lighted up the tin soldier, as he stood, the heat was very terrible, but whether it proceeded from the real fire or from the fire of love he could not tell.
70:70	N:N	N:S	Then he could see that the bright colors were faded from his uniform, but whether they had been washed off during his journey or from the effects of his sorrow, no one could say.
71:71	N:N	N:S	He looked at the little lady, and she looked at him.
72:72	N:N	N:S	He felt himself melting away, but he still remained firm with his gun on his shoulder.
73:73	N:N	-:-	Suddenly the door of the room flew open and the draught of air caught up the little dancer, she fluttered like a sylph right into the stove by the side of the tin soldier, and was instantly in flames and was gone.
74:74	N:N	+:+	The tin soldier melted down into a lump, and the next morning, when the maid servant took the ashes out of the stove, she found him in the shape of a little tin heart.
75:75	N:N	N:-	But of the little dancer nothing remained but the tinsel rose, which was burnt black as a cinder.
0:0	N:N	N:N	A WHIPPING TOP and a little ball lay together in a box, among other toys, and the top said to the ball, "Shall we be married, as we live in the same box?"
1:1	D:D	D:D	But the ball, which wore a dress of morocco leather, and thought as much of herself as any other young lady, would not even condescend to reply.
2:2	N:N	N:H	The next day came the little boy to whom the playthings belonged, and he painted the top red and yellow, and drove a brass-headed nail into the middle, so that while the top was spinning round it looked splendid.
3:3	H:N	H:H	"Look at me," said the top to the ball.
4:4	N:N	N:N	"What do you say now?
5:5	N:N	N:N	Shall we be engaged to each other?
6:6	N:N	N:H	We should suit so well; you spring, and I dance.
7:7	H:N	H:H	No one could be happier than we should be."
8:8	N:N	H:N	"Indeed! do you think so?
9:9	N:N	N:N	Perhaps you do not know that my father and mother were morocco slippers, and that I have a Spanish cork in my body."
10:10	N:N	N:N	"Yes; but I am made of mahogany," said the top.
11:11	N:N	N:N	"The major himself turned me.
12:12	N:N	N:N	He has a turning lathe of his own, and it is a great amusement to him."
13:13	N:N	N:+	"Can I believe it?" asked the ball.
14:14	N:N	N:H	"May I never be whipped again," said the top, "if I am not telling you the truth."
15:15	N:N	N:N	"You certainly know how to speak for yourself very well," said the ball; "but I cannot accept your proposal.
16:16	N:N	N:S	I am almost engaged to a swallow.
17:17	H:N	H:S	Every time I fly up in the air, he puts his head out of the nest, and says, 'Will you?' and I have said, 'Yes,' to myself silently, and that is as good as being half engaged; but I will promise never to forget you."
18:18	A:N	S:A	"Much good that will be to me," said the top; and they spoke to each other no more.
19:19	N:N	N:N	Next day the ball was taken out by the boy.
20:20	N:N	N:N	The top saw it flying high in the air, like a bird, till it would go quite out of sight.
21:21	N:N	N:N	Each time it came back, as it touched the earth, it gave a higher leap than before, either because it longed to fly upwards, or from having a Spanish cork in its body.
22:22	Su-:N	-:S	But the ninth time it rose in the air, it remained away, and did not return.
23:23	Sa:N	S:S	The boy searched everywhere for it, but he searched in vain, for it could not be found; it was gone.
24:24	Sa:Sa	S:S	"I know very well where she is," sighed the top; "she is in the swallow's nest, and has married the swallow."
25:25	N:Sa	S:S	The more the top thought of this, the more he longed for the ball.
26:26	N:N	S:S	His love increased the more, just because he could not get her; and that she should have been won by another, was the worst of all.
27:27	N:N	S:S	The top still twirled about and hummed, but he continued to think of the ball; and the more he thought of her, the more beautiful she seemed to his fancy.
28:28	N:N	N:N	Thus several years passed by, and his love became quite old.
29:29	N:N	N:N	The top, also, was no longer young; but there came a day when he looked handsomer than ever; for he was gilded all over.
30:30	N:N	N:H	He was now a golden top, and whirled and danced about till he hummed quite loud, and was something worth looking at; but one day he leaped too high, and then he, also, was gone.
31:31	N:N	N:-	They searched everywhere, even in the cellar, but he was nowhere to be found.
32:32	N:N	N:-	Where could he be?
33:33	N:N	N:S	He had jumped into the dust-bin, where all sorts of rubbish were lying: cabbage-stalks, dust, and rain-droppings that had fallen down from the gutter under the roof.
34:34	H:N	H:S	"Now I am in a nice place," said he; "my gilding will soon be washed off here.
35:35	Su-:N	-:S	Oh dear, what a set of rabble I have got amongst!"
36:36	N:N	N:-	And then he glanced at a curious round thing like an old apple, which lay near a long, leafless cabbage-stalk.
37:37	N:N	N:S	It was, however, not an apple, but an old ball, which had lain for years in the gutter, and was soaked through with water.
38:38	Su+:N	H:H	"Thank goodness, here comes one of my own class, with whom I can talk," said the ball, examining the gilded top.
39:39	N:N	N:N	"I am made of morocco," she said.
40:40	N:N	N:S	"I was sewn together by a young lady, and I have a Spanish cork in my body; but no one would think it, to look at me now.
41:41	N:N	N:S	I was once engaged to a swallow; but I fell in here from the gutter under the roof, and I have lain here more than five years, and have been thoroughly drenched.
42:42	N:N	N:S	Believe me, it is a long time for a young maiden."
43:43	N:N	N:+	The top said nothing, but he thought of his old love; and the more she said, the more clear it became to him that this was the same ball.
44:44	N:N	N:N	The servant then came to clean out the dust-bin.
45:45	Su+:Su+	+:+	"Ah," she exclaimed, "here is a gilt top."
46:46	N:N	N:H	So the top was brought again to notice and honor, but nothing more was heard of the little ball.
47:47	N:N	N:N	He spoke not a word about his old love; for that soon died away.
48:48	N:N	N:H	When the beloved object has lain for five years in a gutter, and has been drenched through, no one cares to know her again on meeting her in a dust-bin.
0:0	N:N	N:H	IT was lovely summer weather in the country, and the golden corn, the green oats, and the haystacks piled up in the meadows looked beautiful.
1:1	N:N	N:H	The stork walking about on his long red legs chattered in the Egyptian language, which he had learnt from his mother.
2:2	N:N	N:N	The corn-fields and meadows were surrounded by large forests, in the midst of which were deep pools.
3:3	N:N	H:H	It was, indeed, delightful to walk about in the country.
4:4	N:N	N:H	In a sunny spot stood a pleasant old farm-house close by a deep river, and from the house down to the water side grew great burdock leaves, so high, that under the tallest of them a little child could stand upright.
5:5	N:N	N:H	The spot was as wild as the centre of a thick wood.
6:6	N:Sa	N:S	In this snug retreat sat a duck on her nest, watching for her young brood to hatch; she was beginning to get tired of her task, for the little ones were a long time coming out of their shells, and she seldom had any visitors.
7:7	N:N	N:S	The other ducks liked much better to swim about in the river than to climb the slippery banks, and sit under a burdock leaf, to have a gossip with her.
8:8	N:N	H:H	At length one shell cracked, and then another, and from each egg came a living creature that lifted its head and cried, "Peep, peep."
9:9	N:N	H:H	"Quack, quack," said the mother, and then they all quacked as well as they could, and looked about them on every side at the large green leaves.
10:10	N:N	N:H	Their mother allowed them to look as much as they liked, because green is good for the eyes.
11:11	H:N	H:H	"How large the world is," said the young ducks, when they found how much more room they now had than while they were inside the egg-shell.
12:12	N:N	H:N	"Do you imagine this is the whole world?" asked the mother; "Wait till you have seen the garden; it stretches far beyond that to the parson's field, but I have never ventured to such a distance.
13:13	N:N	N:N	Are you all out?" she continued, rising; "No, I declare, the largest egg lies there still.
14:14	N:Sa	N:S	I wonder how long this is to last, I am quite tired of it;" and she seated herself again on the nest.
15:15	N:N	N:N	"Well, how are you getting on?" asked an old duck, who paid her a visit.
16:16	A:N	N:N	"One egg is not hatched yet," said the duck, "it will not break.
17:17	H:N	H:H	But just look at all the others, are they not the prettiest little ducklings you ever saw?
18:18	N:N	N:S	They are the image of their father, who is so unkind, he never comes to see."
19:19	N:N	N:N	"Let me see the egg that will not break," said the duck; "I have no doubt it is a turkey's egg.
20:20	N:N	N:A	I was persuaded to hatch some once, and after all my care and trouble with the young ones, they were afraid of the water.
21:21	N:N	N:A	I quacked and clucked, but all to no purpose.
22:22	N:N	N:A	I could not get them to venture in.
23:23	N:N	N:N	Let me look at the egg.
24:24	N:N	N:N	Yes, that is a turkey's egg; take my advice, leave it where it is and teach the other children to swim."
25:25	N:N	N:N	"I think I will sit on it a little while longer," said the duck; "as I have sat so long already, a few days will be nothing."
26:26	N:N	N:N	"Please yourself," said the old duck, and she went away.
27:27	N:N	N:N	At last the large egg broke, and a young one crept forth crying, "Peep, peep."
28:28	Su-:N	-:S	It was very large and ugly.
29:29	Su-:Su-	-:-	The duck stared at it and exclaimed, "It is very large and not at all like the others.
30:30	N:N	-:-	I wonder if it really is a turkey.
31:31	N:N	N:-	We shall soon find it out, however when we go to the water.
32:32	N:N	N:A	It must go in, if I have to push it myself."
33:33	N:N	N:H	On the next day the weather was delightful, and the sun shone brightly on the green burdock leaves, so the mother duck took her young brood down to the water, and jumped in with a splash.
34:34	N:N	N:H	"Quack, quack," cried she, and one after another the little ducklings jumped in.
35:35	N:N	H:H	The water closed over their heads, but they came up again in an instant, and swam about quite prettily with their legs paddling under them as easily as possible, and the ugly duckling was also in the water swimming with them.
36:36	Su+:N	+:H	"Oh," said the mother, "that is not a turkey; how well he uses his legs, and how upright he holds himself!
37:37	N:N	H:H	He is my own child, and he is not so very ugly after all if you look at him properly.
38:38	N:N	N:H	Quack, quack! come with me now, I will take you into grand society, and introduce you to the farmyard, but you must keep close to me or you may be trodden upon; and, above all, beware of the cat."
39:39	N:N	N:F	When they reached the farmyard, there was a great disturbance, two families were fighting for an eel's head, which, after all, was carried off by the cat.
40:40	N:Sa	N:S	"See, children, that is the way of the world," said the mother duck, whetting her beak, for she would have liked the eel's head herself.
41:41	N:N	N:N	"Come, now, use your legs, and let me see how well you can behave.
42:42	N:N	N:N	You must bow your heads prettily to that old duck yonder; she is the highest born of them all, and has Spanish blood, therefore, she is well off.
43:43	N:N	N:N	Don't you see she has a red flag tied to her leg, which is something very grand, and a great honor for a duck; it shows that every one is anxious not to lose her, as she can be recognized both by man and beast.
44:44	N:N	N:N	Come, now, don't turn your toes, a well-bred duckling spreads his feet wide apart, just like his father and mother, in this way; now bend your neck, and say 'quack.'"
45:45	N:A	N:A	The ducklings did as they were bid, but the other duck stared, and said, "Look, here comes another brood, as if there were not enough of us already! and what a queer looking object one of them is; we don't want him here," and then one flew out and bit him in the neck.
46:46	N:N	N:A	"Let him alone," said the mother; "he is not doing any harm."
47:47	D:N	D:A	"Yes, but he is so big and ugly," said the spiteful duck "and therefore he must be turned out."
48:48	D:N	D:S	"The others are very pretty children," said the old duck, with the rag on her leg, "all but that one; I wish his mother could improve him a little."
49:49	D:N	D:N	"That is impossible, your grace," replied the mother; "he is not pretty; but he has a very good disposition, and swims as well or even better than the others.
50:50	N:N	N:S	I think he will grow up pretty, and perhaps be smaller; he has remained too long in the egg, and therefore his figure is not properly formed;" and then she stroked his neck and smoothed the feathers, saying, "It is a drake, and therefore not of so much consequence.
51:51	N:N	N:N	I think he will grow up strong, and able to take care of himself."
52:52	N:N	N:N	"The other ducklings are graceful enough," said the old duck.
53:53	N:N	N:N	"Now make yourself at home, and if you can find an eel's head, you can bring it to me."
54:54	N:N	S:S	And so they made themselves comfortable; but the poor duckling, who had crept out of his shell last of all, and looked so ugly, was bitten and pushed and made fun of, not only by the ducks, but by all the poultry.
55:55	Sa:Sa	S:S	"He is too big," they all said, and the turkey cock, who had been born into the world with spurs, and fancied himself really an emperor, puffed himself out like a vessel in full sail, and flew at the duckling, and became quite red in the head with passion, so that the poor little thing did not know where to go, and was quite miserable because he was so ugly and laughed at by the whole farmyard.
56:56	N:N	S:S	So it went on from day to day till it got worse and worse.
57:57	D:N	D:S	The poor duckling was driven about by every one; even his brothers and sisters were unkind to him, and would say, "Ah, you ugly creature, I wish the cat would get you," and his mother said she wished he had never been born.
58:58	N:N	S:S	The ducks pecked him, the chickens beat him, and the girl who fed the poultry kicked him with her feet.
59:59	N:N	S:F	So at last he ran away, frightening the little birds in the hedge as he flew over the palings.
60:60	Sa:N	S:S	"They are afraid of me because I am ugly," he said.
61:61	N:N	N:S	So he closed his eyes, and flew still farther, until he came out on a large moor, inhabited by wild ducks.
62:62	Sa:Sa	S:S	Here he remained the whole night, feeling very tired and sorrowful.
63:63	N:N	N:-	In the morning, when the wild ducks rose in the air, they stared at their new comrade.
64:64	N:N	N:-	"What sort of a duck are you?" they all said, coming round him.
65:65	N:N	N:N	He bowed to them, and was as polite as he could be, but he did not reply to their question.
66:66	Su-:N	-:N	"You are exceedingly ugly," said the wild ducks, "but that will not matter if you do not want to marry one of our family."
67:67	N:N	S:S	Poor thing! he had no thoughts of marriage; all he wanted was permission to lie among the rushes, and drink some of the water on the moor.
68:68	N:H	N:H	After he had been on the moor two days, there came two wild geese, or rather goslings, for they had not been out of the egg long, and were very saucy.
69:69	H:N	H:H	"Listen, friend," said one of them to the duckling, "you are so ugly, that we like you very well.
70:70	N:N	N:H	Will you go with us, and become a bird of passage?
71:71	N:N	N:H	Not far from here is another moor, in which there are some pretty wild geese, all unmarried.
72:72	N:N	N:H	It is a chance for you to get a wife; you may be lucky, ugly as you are."
73:73	Su-:N	-:F	"Pop, pop," sounded in the air, and the two wild geese fell dead among the rushes, and the water was tinged with blood.
74:74	N:N	-:F	"Pop, pop," echoed far and wide in the distance, and whole flocks of wild geese rose up from the rushes.
75:75	N:N	N:F	The sound continued from every direction, for the sportsmen surrounded the moor, and some were even seated on branches of trees, overlooking the rushes.
76:76	N:N	N:F	The blue smoke from the guns rose like clouds over the dark trees, and as it floated away across the water, a number of sporting dogs bounded in among the rushes, which bent beneath them wherever they went.
77:77	F:F	F:F	How they terrified the poor duckling!
78:78	N:N	F:F	He turned away his head to hide it under his wing, and at the same moment a large terrible dog passed quite near him.
79:79	N:N	F:F	His jaws were open, his tongue hung from his mouth, and his eyes glared fearfully.
80:80	H:H	N:H	He thrust his nose close to the duckling, showing his sharp teeth, and then, "splash, splash," he went into the water without touching him, "Oh," sighed the duckling, "how thankful I am for being so ugly; even a dog will not bite me."
81:81	N:N	F:F	And so he lay quite still, while the shot rattled through the rushes, and gun after gun was fired over him.
82:82	N:F	F:F	It was late in the day before all became quiet, but even then the poor young thing did not dare to move.
83:83	N:N	N:F	He waited quietly for several hours, and then, after looking carefully around him, hastened away from the moor as fast as he could.
84:84	N:N	N:F	He ran over field and meadow till a storm arose, and he could hardly struggle against it.
85:85	N:N	N:N	Towards evening, he reached a poor little cottage that seemed ready to fall, and only remained standing because it could not decide on which side to fall first.
86:86	N:N	N:N	The storm continued so violent, that the duckling could go no farther; he sat down by the cottage, and then he noticed that the door was not quite closed in consequence of one of the hinges having given way.
87:87	N:N	N:N	There was therefore a narrow opening near the bottom large enough for him to slip through, which he did very quietly, and got a shelter for the night.
88:88	N:N	N:N	A woman, a tom cat, and a hen lived in this cottage.
89:89	N:N	N:N	The tom cat, whom the mistress called, "My little son," was a great favorite; he could raise his back, and purr, and could even throw out sparks from his fur if it were stroked the wrong way.
90:90	N:N	N:N	The hen had very short legs, so she was called "Chickie short legs."
91:91	H:H	H:H	She laid good eggs, and her mistress loved her as if she had been her own child.
92:92	N:N	N:+	In the morning, the strange visitor was discovered, and the tom cat began to purr, and the hen to cluck.
93:93	N:N	N:+	"What is that noise about?" said the old woman, looking round the room, but her sight was not very good; therefore, when she saw the duckling she thought it must be a fat duck, that had strayed from home.
94:94	Su+:N	+:+	"Oh what a prize!" she exclaimed, "I hope it is not a drake, for then I shall have some duck's eggs.
95:95	N:N	N:+	I must wait and see."
96:96	N:N	N:N	So the duckling was allowed to remain on trial for three weeks, but there were no eggs.
97:97	N:N	N:N	Now the tom cat was the master of the house, and the hen was mistress, and they always said, "We and the world," for they believed themselves to be half the world, and the better half too.
98:98	N:N	N:N	The duckling thought that others might hold a different opinion on the subject, but the hen would not listen to such doubts.
99:99	N:N	N:N	"Can you lay eggs?" she asked.
100:100	N:N	N:N	"No."
101:101	N:N	N:A	"Then have the goodness to hold your tongue."
102:102	N:N	N:A	"Can you raise your back, or purr, or throw out sparks?" said the tom cat.
103:103	N:N	N:N	"No."
104:104	D:N	D:A	"Then you have no right to express an opinion when sensible people are speaking."
105:105	Sa:Sa	S:S	So the duckling sat in a corner, feeling very low spirited, till the sunshine and the fresh air came into the room through the open door, and then he began to feel such a great longing for a swim on the water, that he could not help telling the hen.
106:106	D:N	N:A	"What an absurd idea," said the hen.
107:107	D:N	D:A	"You have nothing else to do, therefore you have foolish fancies.
108:108	N:N	D:A	If you could purr or lay eggs, they would pass away."
109:109	H:N	N:H	"But it is so delightful to swim about on the water," said the duckling, "and so refreshing to feel it close over your head, while you dive down to the bottom."
110:110	D:N	D:D	"Delightful, indeed!" said the hen, "why you must be crazy!
111:111	N:N	N:N	Ask the cat, he is the cleverest animal I know, ask him how he would like to swim about on the water, or to dive under it, for I will not speak of my own opinion; ask our mistress, the old woman- there is no one in the world more clever than she is.
112:112	N:N	N:N	Do you think she would like to swim, or to let the water close over her head?"
113:113	N:N	N:S	"You don't understand me," said the duckling.
114:114	N:N	N:A	"We don't understand you?
115:115	N:N	N:A	Who can understand you, I wonder?
116:116	N:N	N:A	Do you consider yourself more clever than the cat, or the old woman?
117:117	N:N	N:A	I will say nothing of myself.
118:118	D:N	D:A	Don't imagine such nonsense, child, and thank your good fortune that you have been received here.
119:119	N:N	D:A	Are you not in a warm room, and in society from which you may learn something.
120:120	D:N	D:A	But you are a chatterer, and your company is not very agreeable.
121:121	N:N	N:A	Believe me, I speak only for your own good.
122:122	N:N	N:A	I may tell you unpleasant truths, but that is a proof of my friendship.
123:123	N:N	N:A	I advise you, therefore, to lay eggs, and learn to purr as quickly as possible."
124:124	N:N	N:N	"I believe I must go out into the world again," said the duckling.
125:125	N:N	N:N	"Yes, do," said the hen.
126:126	N:N	N:N	So the duckling left the cottage, and soon found water on which it could swim and dive, but was avoided by all other animals, because of its ugly appearance.
127:127	N:N	N:N	Autumn came, and the leaves in the forest turned to orange and gold. then, as winter approached, the wind caught them as they fell and whirled them in the cold air.
128:128	N:N	N:N	The clouds, heavy with hail and snow-flakes, hung low in the sky, and the raven stood on the ferns crying, "Croak, croak."
129:129	N:N	N:S	It made one shiver with cold to look at him.
130:130	Sa:Sa	S:S	All this was very sad for the poor little duckling.
131:131	N:N	N:+	One evening, just as the sun set amid radiant clouds, there came a large flock of beautiful birds out of the bushes.
132:132	Su+:Su+	+:+	The duckling had never seen any like them before.
133:133	N:N	N:+	They were swans, and they curved their graceful necks, while their soft plumage shown with dazzling whiteness.
134:134	N:N	N:+	They uttered a singular cry, as they spread their glorious wings and flew away from those cold regions to warmer countries across the sea.
135:135	N:Su+	N:+	As they mounted higher and higher in the air, the ugly little duckling felt quite a strange sensation as he watched them.
136:136	F:F	N:F	He whirled himself in the water like a wheel, stretched out his neck towards them, and uttered a cry so strange that it frightened himself.
137:137	H:H	H:H	Could he ever forget those beautiful, happy birds; and when at last they were out of his sight, he dived under the water, and rose again almost beside himself with excitement.
138:138	N:N	H:H	He knew not the names of these birds, nor where they had flown, but he felt towards them as he had never felt for any other bird in the world.
139:139	N:N	N:H	He was not envious of these beautiful creatures, but wished to be as lovely as they.
140:140	N:N	N:S	Poor ugly creature, how gladly he would have lived even with the ducks had they only given him encouragement.
141:141	N:N	N:S	The winter grew colder and colder; he was obliged to swim about on the water to keep it from freezing, but every night the space on which he swam became smaller and smaller.
142:142	N:N	N:S	At length it froze so hard that the ice in the water crackled as he moved, and the duckling had to paddle with his legs as well as he could, to keep the space from closing up.
143:143	Su-:Sa	-:S	He became exhausted at last, and lay still and helpless, frozen fast in the ice.
144:144	N:N	N:S	Early in the morning, a peasant, who was passing by, saw what had happened.
145:145	N:N	N:H	He broke the ice in pieces with his wooden shoe, and carried the duckling home to his wife.
146:146	F:F	F:F	The warmth revived the poor little creature; but when the children wanted to play with him, the duckling thought they would do him some harm; so he started up in terror, fluttered into the milk-pan, and splashed the milk about the room.
147:147	F:F	F:F	Then the woman clapped her hands, which frightened him still more.
148:148	N:N	F:F	He flew first into the butter-cask, then into the meal-tub, and out again.
149:149	N:N	F:F	What a condition he was in!
150:150	A:F	A:F	The woman screamed, and struck at him with the tongs; the children laughed and screamed, and tumbled over each other, in their efforts to catch him; but luckily he escaped.
151:151	N:Sa	N:S	The door stood open; the poor creature could just manage to slip out among the bushes, and lie down quite exhausted in the newly fallen snow.
152:152	N:Sa	S:S	It would be very sad, were I to relate all the misery and privations which the poor little duckling endured during the hard winter; but when it had passed, he found himself lying one morning in a moor, amongst the rushes.
153:153	N:N	N:H	He felt the warm sun shining, and heard the lark singing, and saw that all around was beautiful spring.
154:154	N:N	N:H	Then the young bird felt that his wings were strong, as he flapped them against his sides, and rose high into the air.
155:155	N:N	N:+	They bore him onwards, until he found himself in a large garden, before he well knew how it had happened.
156:156	N:N	N:H	The apple-trees were in full blossom, and the fragrant elders bent their long green branches down to the stream which wound round a smooth lawn.
157:157	N:N	H:H	Everything looked beautiful, in the freshness of early spring.
158:158	N:N	N:H	From a thicket close by came three beautiful white swans, rustling their feathers, and swimming lightly over the smooth water.
159:159	Sa:Sa	S:S	The duckling remembered the lovely birds, and felt more strangely unhappy than ever.
160:160	Sa:N	S:S	"I will fly to those royal birds," he exclaimed, "and they will kill me, because I am so ugly, and dare to approach them; but it does not matter: better be killed by them than pecked by the ducks, beaten by the hens, pushed about by the maiden who feeds the poultry, or starved with hunger in the winter."
161:161	N:N	N:S	Then he flew to the water, and swam towards the beautiful swans.
162:162	H:N	H:+	The moment they espied the stranger, they rushed to meet him with outstretched wings.
163:163	Sa:N	S:S	"Kill me," said the poor bird; and he bent his head down to the surface of the water, and awaited death.
164:164	N:N	N:N	But what did he see in the clear stream below?
165:165	Su+:N	+:+	His own image; no longer a dark, gray bird, ugly and disagreeable to look at, but a graceful and beautiful swan.
166:166	N:N	H:N	To be born in a duck's nest, in a farmyard, is of no consequence to a bird, if it is hatched from a swan's egg.
167:167	H:H	H:H	He now felt glad at having suffered sorrow and trouble, because it enabled him to enjoy so much better all the pleasure and happiness around him; for the great swans swam round the new-comer, and stroked his neck with their beaks, as a welcome.
168:168	N:N	N:H	Into the garden presently came some little children, and threw bread and cake into the water.
169:169	H:H	H:H	"See," cried the youngest, "there is a new one;" and the rest were delighted, and ran to their father and mother, dancing and clapping their hands, and shouting joyously, "There is another swan come; a new one has arrived."
170:170	H:N	H:H	Then they threw more bread and cake into the water, and said, "The new one is the most beautiful of all; he is so young and pretty."
171:171	N:N	H:H	And the old swans bowed their heads before him.
172:172	H:F	H:F	Then he felt quite ashamed, and hid his head under his wing; for he did not know what to do, he was so happy, and yet not at all proud.
173:173	N:N	H:N	He had been persecuted and despised for his ugliness, and now he heard them say he was the most beautiful of all the birds.
174:174	N:N	H:H	Even the elder-tree bent down its bows into the water before him, and the sun shone warm and bright.
175:175	H:H	H:H	Then he rustled his feathers, curved his slender neck, and cried joyfully, from the depths of his heart, "I never dreamed of such happiness as this, while I was an ugly duckling."
0:0	Su-:N	-:F	THERE lived once upon a time a wicked prince whose heart and mind were set upon conquering all the countries of the world, and on frightening the people; he devastated their countries with fire and sword, and his soldiers trod down the crops in the fields and destroyed the peasants' huts by fire, so that the flames licked the green leaves off the branches, and the fruit hung dried up on the singed black trees.
1:1	Su-:F	-:F	Many a poor mother fled, her naked baby in her arms, behind the still smoking walls of her cottage; but also there the soldiers followed her, and when they found her, she served as new nourishment to their diabolical enjoyments; demons could not possibly have done worse things than these soldiers!
2:2	N:H	-:F	The prince was of opinion that all this was right, and that it was only the natural course which things ought to take.
3:3	N:F	-:F	His power increased day by day, his name was feared by all, and fortune favoured his deeds.
4:4	N:N	N:F	He brought enormous wealth home from the conquered towns, and gradually accumulated in his residence riches which could nowhere be equalled.
5:5	Su+:H	+:H	He erected magnificent palaces, churches, and halls, and all who saw these splendid buildings and great treasures exclaimed admiringly: "What a mighty prince!"
6:6	N:Sa	N:S	But they did not know what endless misery he had brought upon other countries, nor did they hear the sighs and lamentations which rose up from the debris of the destroyed cities.
7:7	H:H	+:H	The prince often looked with delight upon his gold and his magnificent edifices, and thought, like the crowd: "What a mighty prince!
8:8	N:N	N:N	But I must have more- much more.
9:9	H:N	N:N	No power on earth must equal mine, far less exceed it."
10:10	N:N	N:N	He made war with all his neighbours, and defeated them.
11:11	Su-:N	-:N	The conquered kings were chained up with golden fetters to his chariot when he drove through the streets of his city.
12:12	Sa:N	S:N	These kings had to kneel at his and his courtiers' feet when they sat at table, and live on the morsels which they left.
13:13	D:A	D:A	At last the prince had his own statue erected on the public places and fixed on the royal palaces; nay, he even wished it to be placed in the churches, on the altars, but in this the priests opposed him, saying: "Prince, you are mighty indeed, but God's power is much greater than yours; we dare not obey your orders."
14:14	N:N	N:N	"Well," said the prince.
15:15	D:N	D:N	"Then I will conquer God too."
16:16	N:N	N:N	And in his haughtiness and foolish presumption he ordered a magnificent ship to be constructed, with which he could sail through the air; it was gorgeously fitted out and of many colours; like the tail of a peacock, it was covered with thousands of eyes, but each eye was the barrel of a gun.
17:17	N:N	N:N	The prince sat in the centre of the ship, and had only to touch a spring in order to make thousands of bullets fly out in all directions, while the guns were at once loaded again.
18:18	N:N	N:N	Hundreds of eagles were attached to this ship, and it rose with the swiftness of an arrow up towards the sun.
19:19	N:N	N:N	The earth was soon left far below, and looked, with its mountains and woods, like a cornfield where the plough had made furrows which separated green meadows; soon it looked only like a map with indistinct lines upon it; and at last it entirely disappeared in mist and clouds.
20:20	N:N	N:N	Higher and higher rose the eagles up into the air; then God sent one of his numberless angels against the ship.
21:21	N:N	A:N	The wicked prince showered thousands of bullets upon him, but they rebounded from his shining wings and fell down like ordinary hailstones.
22:22	N:N	-:N	One drop of blood, one single drop, came out of the white feathers of the angel's wings and fell upon the ship in which the prince sat, burnt into it, and weighed upon it like thousands of hundredweights, dragging it rapidly down to the earth again; the strong wings of the eagles gave way, the wind roared round the prince's head, and the clouds around- were they formed by the smoke rising up from the burnt cities?- took strange shapes, like crabs many, many miles long, which stretched their claws out after him, and rose up like enormous rocks, from which rolling masses dashed down, and became fire-spitting dragons.
23:23	N:N	-:N	The prince was lying half-dead in his ship, when it sank at last with a terrible shock into the branches of a large tree in the wood.
24:24	A:N	A:N	"I will conquer God!" said the prince.
25:25	A:N	A:N	"I have sworn it: my will must be done!"
26:26	N:N	N:N	And he spent seven years in the construction of wonderful ships to sail through the air, and had darts cast from the hardest steel to break the walls of heaven with.
27:27	N:N	N:N	He gathered warriors from all countries, so many that when they were placed side by side they covered the space of several miles.
28:28	N:N	N:N	They entered the ships and the prince was approaching his own, when God sent a swarm of gnats- one swarm of little gnats.
29:29	A:A	A:A	They buzzed round the prince and stung his face and hands; angrily he drew his sword and brandished it, but he only touched the air and did not hit the gnats.
30:30	N:N	A:N	Then he ordered his servants to bring costly coverings and wrap him in them, that the gnats might no longer be able to reach him.
31:31	N:N	N:N	The servants carried out his orders, but one single gnat had placed itself inside one of the coverings, crept into the prince's ear and stung him.
32:32	N:N	-:N	The place burnt like fire, and the poison entered into his blood.
33:33	A:A	A:A	Mad with pain, he tore off the coverings and his clothes too, flinging them far away, and danced about before the eyes of his ferocious soldiers, who now mocked at him, the mad prince, who wished to make war with God, and was overcome by a single little gnat.
